The investment story in AI is is real
and it's going to be significant. Once
again, AI capex plans are actually
exceeding expectations.
>> The market is pricing in some idea that
you you are going to get that broadening
of the AI benefits.
>> AI is a watershed event on the timeline
of of technology and we believe that
this flows through all 11 sectors. AI
has the potential to be the biggest
productivity enhancer for the global
economy since electricity.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Thursday, Jay Who following the
worst Fed day performance of the year so
far. Stocks bouncing back as earnings
from Meta and Microsoft crush estimates
ahead of one more read on the health of
the Magnificent 7. Apple and Amazon are
coming up next.
>> I think you framed it perfectly. The
idea of Joo. The Fed meeting took a
backseat yesterday from tech earnings
that blew it out of the water. When you
look at the share price response given
the gains we've already seen this year,
it tells you a lot. Given the fact that
Microsoft already has performed with
returns of some 20% so far this year, to
see their shares absolutely surge and
become a $4 trillion company, the second
in the United States, gaining some $314
billion of implied market cap overnight
like that gives you a sense of the
momentum behind the AI names.
>> Jay, who and tariffs, what tariffs?
Ford, a $40 billion company complaining
about tariffs. Microsoft, a $4 trillion
company, absolutely crushing estimates.
Rick Reader this week, markets aren't
ignoring risk. They're pricing a system
built to absorb it.
>> You have on one side this idea of policy
uncertainty. You have questions around
inflation. And then you have the freight
train that is technological advancement
that seems to have no end in terms of
profitability. And frankly, remember
that ripple moment when investors were
worried about how much some of these
companies were spending on advancing
this technology? Now, it seems like you
cannot spend enough. Meta comes out and
says, "Yes, we are accelerating our
spending." And guess what? We're going
to do it even more next year, but the
cash engine is revving so wildly that
people just embrace that and say, "Thank
you. Can I have another?"
>> So, question, here's two. How relevant
was the meeting yesterday for the
Federal Reserve? How relevant will the
meeting be on September 17th?
>> You know, it depends on the economic
data. And I think what yesterday did was
very much focus us all on tomorrow. And
I hate to jump the gun because there's a
lot going on right now and a lot to
parse through that already did happen.
But the jobs report on Friday, tomorrow
is going to be incredibly important. If
you start to see a ticking up in the
unemployment rate, suddenly you have to
wonder whether you can see this
broadening out, this just incredible
enthusiasm around AI spread to the rest
of the universe or whether you're
looking at something that's kind of a
secular theme overlaid on a lot of kind
of lumps and that I think is what people
are looking at.
>> Payrolls tomorrow morning 8:30 Eastern
time. from a sneak peek at the estimates
so far. The medium 104, the high 170,
the low is zero. The range is incredibly
wide. That's the story for tomorrow
morning. For this morning, this hour,
we'll catch up with Chris Veron of
Strategus as big tech drives stocks
higher. Stefan Stinsky of BMP Parabar
looking ahead to earnings from Apple and
Amazon and David Se of Neora as Fetch JP
Pal stays in wait and see mode. We begin
this hour with stocks bouncing back
after a strong start to earnings season
from big tech. Both Meta and Microsoft
rallying hard in the pre-market to
discuss. Joining us now, Chris Verona,
Strategus, a bad company. Chris, good
morning.
>> Great to be here, John.
>> How difficult is it to short this market
when Microsoft and Meta put up numbers
like that?
>> Well, you can't short up trends, and I
think yesterday certainly reveals that
to us. Um, I think it's a broader
reminder that in uptrends, expect
surprises to be on the upside, not on
the downside. And I think the results
certainly reflect that here as well. You
know, when you put it in context of the
bigger picture, you there's going to be
a lot of attention. Oh, look, it's just
these big stocks driving the whole
market. But remember, equal weight S&P
also made a new high this week. So, I
recognize the average stock might not be
the leadership, but at least the average
stock is still involved. The leadership
is clearly still coming from the top of
the tape, but equal weight S&P at new
highs is not a bad thing.
>> I mentioned Rick Reer of Black Rockck.
You put out a piece in the Financial
Times earlier this week and talked about
the resilience of the system, the
economy, and financial markets in
America. Can we just reflect on that on
where we are now compared to where we
thought we might be just a few months
ago?
>> Yeah, I thought that was so well said
from Rick and when you look at the
message of the market here, I think it
continues to emphasize the economy is
fine. You know, cyclicals versus
defensives are making new cycle highs.
We've been of the view uh for some time
that there's a lot of shades in 96 right
here and you see it certainly in the
results from tech but you see it from
the continued leadership from the banks.
You go back to 96 it was one of the only
times in history where the Fed cut with
banks at all-time highs and the next
year was quite good. So I think the
characteristics of this advance remind
us a lot of that of that mid to late
1990s.
>> So I go back to Joo. Is this a market
that doesn't need Jay who to cut rates?
Because ultimately you're already seeing
that dynamism.
>> Listen, I think the 2-year yield is 390
and I think the Fed funds rate is above
that. I think the market's ultimately
telling you where he's going to go. My
suspicion is it's September. Whether it
is not uh whether it's later in the
year, I still think ultimately that's
that's where they're going. And the rate
sensitive cyclicals I do think have
started to stiff this out over the last
couple weeks. You've seen improvement in
housing and home building. uh consumer
goods starting to outperform consumer
services. So there's little hints that
the rate sensitive corners of the market
that have you know frankly been on the
wrong side of the tape here are starting
to sniff out Powell ultimately getting
to where the market wants them to get.
>> There's a larger point here not just
parsing Fed speak which we're not going
to do it too much this morning I hope
because ultimately there are more
interesting stories. The idea is there
are these pressures these uncertainties
that still are out there. Whether it's
what's going on with inflation, whether
it's what's going on with growth,
whether it's what's going on with
tariffs and the potential uh what's
coming down the pike and how they'll be
really distributed across the economy.
So, are we saying that the AI story
overwhelms it is a separate story is
masking that or is feeding into the rest
of the universe to sustain a broader
kind of bleed up?
>> Well, let's pick up on a word that you
just used, inflation. And for the life
of me, I cannot figure out why they're
weighing these risks equally. You know,
when Powell spoke yesterday about he was
talking about washing machines and I
mean as whirlpool actually bottoms and
turns up. Uh the irony of this to me
when energy stocks are making relative
lows when material stocks are as weak as
they are. I mean copper was down 20%. So
we we think about this picture and I
can't make the case that inflation is
much of a meaningful risk here. Five
year five year forwards have been in the
same range they've been in all year. The
10-year yield has been as benign as
anything out there. Two-year yields
pointing lower. So, I don't see
inflation being the big threat here.
>> I'm pleased you've brought this up. I
think it's important. If you think about
the sources of inflation, goods,
services, the labor market, energy, why
are they seemingly only focused on one
piece of the puzzle?
>> I think it's a little uh find the data
that supports the case. Uh you know, you
go back to September when they cut.
It's, you know, almost a year ago now.
Stocks were at all-time highs. Spreads
were on the tights. gold was making new
highs. Pretty similar environment to the
one that we're in right now. Now, the
irony is the word they should be using
today is transitory, but they're
prohibited from using that word for the
rest of time. It is probably the correct
language to describe the environment
that we've been here. A tariff or a
price change like that is a transitory
event. And I think the reluctance to
almost repeat the error that they made
in 2122 is prohibiting them from making
the correct call. Right now
>> there's some scarring there without a
doubt and that's one side of the mandate
on the labor market. What was confusing
for many yesterday is how anchored the
Fed chair's view is just around one data
point the unemployment rate and a lot of
people might make the argument this
morning that that's a misleading data
point as well in the labor market that
there are cracks there. So I was
surprised yesterday to hear the Fed
chair talk about how he doesn't really
see a weakening in the labor market
where we can all sit here this morning
and pick out various data points that
say otherwise. Yeah, he really seemed to
hone in on the idea that there is an
equalization between supply and demand
in the labor market. That because you've
had the number of uh immigrants or or
migrants in this country go down, that
has equalized the number of uh people
out there. You start looking at all of
this and it goes to Chris's point. How
does he dismiss potential weakness? Talk
about the potential inflationary threat.
While there still is that kind of
dissonance on the Fed and a real
recognition that there are cracks out
there.
>> As the chairman was speaking just
yesterday, we were all watching bond
yields start to climb and the dollar
climb with it. Can we talk about the
dollar trade back in April saw bonds
break down, yields up, and the dollar go
in the wrong direction? Feels like we've
reestablished the kind of relationship
we're used to. What's behind that?
>> So, we wrote yesterday, you know, a
benign bond market and dollar rallying
doesn't sound like the capital flight we
were all promised, right? So I I I think
when you look at the dollar here,
there's a couple things going on. Number
one, sentiment is about as one-sided as
I've seen in years and years and years.
There are dollar bears and dollar shorts
everywhere you look. And I think a lot
of people have missed that probably
growth differentials are starting to
suggest stronger dollar here, not weaker
dollar. DXY closed above the 50-day for
the first time um on Tuesday uh all
year. Uh Euro USD uh started to break
down here. Um when you look at our own
proprietary measures of sentiment uh you
have dollar bears just abundant here. So
I think you're set up for a pretty big
contra rally uh in DXY here. Maybe 102
103 is certainly in the cards.
>> Is that a headwind to US multinationals
and a tailwind to US bond markets?
>> Yeah, it's a good question and we kind
of addressed this yesterday. It seems
like this market, you know, everything
in front of you has been the right call.
what could upset or disrupt that? And I
I I do think maybe the new piece of
information over the last week or two is
this dollar starting to rally and how
does that impact groups like industrials
and tech which have carried the baton of
leadership for much of the year. Now
certainly no evidence of that in last
night's numbers. Um but I do think if
we're thinking about what could change
over the next four, five, six months
into the back half of the year, that is
certainly something I I would be uh
alert to. I do think it's notable. It
does seem like gold is breaking down
here or at least attempting to break
down. I mean, for everything that's gone
on uh in the world from April forward,
gold's made no progress. And again,
below the 50-day moving average, watch
the 3250 level on gold. Underneath that,
I think it becomes easier to make the
case maybe you're going back to 29,
2850.
>> How bullish are you then given all of
this? given the fact that it's a
question of looking for leadership, not
necessarily where are the cracks going
to be. How much do you feel like this uh
equity market has a lot of room to run?
>> So, it's not what I think. Um it's I
think this business is about
behaviorally training yourself to be on
the right side of the trend and when the
trend is up, expect surprises to break
in the direction of the trend. I think
we saw that with the numbers yesterday.
So, um, not that things can't change or
or won't change, but I still expect
higher prices from here. We started the
year 6750 on S&P target. I'm still on
that camp. It may be too modest, uh, by
the time that we get there. Uh, but I
think we're in a bull market. I I think
there shades of, you know, kind of late
late 90s. I like the fact S&P is getting
involved with tech. I think the big
question is, does the reemergence of
dollar here upset some of the leadership
characteristics?
>> Chris, it's good to see you as always.
Thanks for dropping by Chris Ron there
at Strategus Equities charging on high
by about 1% so far this morning on the
S&P 500 with an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Let's cross over to Yahara Anard. Hey
Yahara.
>> Good morning John. If you haven't heard,
despite pressure from President Trump,
the Fed kept interest rates unchanged.
Fed chair Jay Pal said growth moderated
in early 2025 and repeated that
uncertainty about the economic outlook
remains elevated. Two governors
desented, the first time that's happened
in over 30 years. Governors Michelle
Bowman and Christopher Waller favored a
quarter point rate cut. Meanwhile,
Microsoft is set to become the second
company in the world to reach a $4
trillion market cap. Shares are rising
8% in the pre-market after it reported
better than expected growth in its cloud
business with its Azure unit posting a
39% rise in sales. Microsoft said it
will spend more than $30 billion in the
current quarter to build out its data
centers for AI. And moving on to another
big spender, shares of Meta are rallying
11% in the pre-market. The social media
giant reported second quarter earnings
that beat Wall Street estimates and
forecast better than expected results
for the current quarter. The Facebook
owner said it's taking advantage of its
lucrative ad business and stepping up
spending next year. That brief John,
>> what a move in a pre-market. Yahara,
thank you. More from Yhara later on this
hour. Up next, approaching President
Trump's deal making deadline.
>> We made our deal with the European
Union. The Japan deal is done. We're
talking to India now. We'll see what
happens. But you'll know at the end of
this week.
>> That conversation up next with Tobin
Marcus of Wolf Research live from New
York City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Check out these moves in a pre-market
from big tech. Meta Microsoft big rally.
The southside likes what they heard
yesterday. Wedbush a slam dunk quarter
for Microsoft on meta truist a license
to spend and spend they will over the
next 12 months.
>> Yeah. An estimated 100 to 120 billion
dollar for dollars for full year 2025
potential expenditures. And right now
people are seeing it pay off. Just to
give you a scope of the move that we're
seeing pre-market. Uh just a little bit
more than 8% gain in pre-market trading
means a market capitalization gain of
$314 billion dollars should it hold
through the remainder of this trading
session.
>> It's a huge move. Equity futures charge
on up by 1% on the S&P 500 up by even
more on the NASDAQ 100. The NASDAQ 100
higher by 1.3%. Thank you big tech. If
you don't have it the small caps
negative a third of 1% this morning.
That tells the story. It tells the story
of the US equity market under Savannah
this morning. approaching President
Trump's deal making deadline.
>> We made our deal with the European
Union.
Uh the Japan deal is done. Many of the
other deals are done. Indonesia was a
very big deal, but we'll see what
happens. We're talking to India now.
We'll see what happens. And it doesn't
matter too much whether we have a deal
or whether we charge them a certain
tariff, but you'll know at the end of uh
this week.
>> It's the latest this morning. President
Trump declaring more deals and demands
ahead of his deadline tomorrow. The
president announcing 15% tariffs on
South Korean imports matching the rate
for Japan. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now for more. Tyler, one day to
go.
>> John, one day to go and we have gotten
some surprise announcements leading up
to it, but there's still a whole lot of
big questions when it comes to South
Korea. Of course, clinching that 15%
rate considered to be preferential. It
does extend to auto, something that's
been a really critical sticking point in
these negotiations. But we still have
questions about some of the investment
commitments that the White House says
South Korea has committed to when it
comes to a $350 billion US investment
fund, mirroring what we saw with its
regional rival, Japan. But still, we're
not quite sure exactly how that's going
to be structured when it comes to
investment versus loans, for example.
But there's still a lot of other trading
partners that we're waiting for. I'd say
that I'm watching closely whether or not
Cambodia and Thailand get some new rates
today. The US Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik last night said that they have
reached an agreement with those two
countries. We're likely going to see
their 36% threatened tariff rate lowered
and probably some talk about this idea
of trans shshipment when it comes to
countering China. Just to stick with
China for a quick second here, President
Trump there talking about India. We did
see a surprise 25% levy threatened
against them yesterday. Also with the
additional threat of additional
penalties when it comes to how India
imports Russian energy supplies. This
was considered to be a pretty big
reversal John considering that we know
that the US has been courting India as a
strategic ally when it does come to
countering China.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. More from
Tyler later on this morning. Tyler thank
you. Toby Marcus Evolve Research joins
us now for more. Tobin, welcome to the
program sir. are the pieces of the
puzzle falling into place.
>> New trade deal earlier this week um
really settled the last major
outstanding question. So I think even
before this latest flurry of deals with
uh clarity on the tariff rates for the
EU along with the previous deals on
Japan, Vietnam, Indonesia and the
Philippines in our view that really
landed the plane for the most part on
what markets are looking at for this
August 1st increase. We are seeing still
a big tariff increase on August 1st. Uh
we're going to go up by about $80
billion in our latest numbers uh in
terms of the the reciprocal tariffs that
are applicable. When all these new
numbers phase in, they're lower than
feared, lower than threatened, but still
higher than current prevailing rates uh
in in every case that's been announced
so far. On the reciprocal, uh that's
partially offset by some sexual relief.
And then when we look a little further
down the road, we have semis, we have
pharma. Uh those are both potentially
quite material with very large bases of
goods to which they're applicable. Um so
we're still in the ramp up phase here.
>> Toby, let's talk about some of the
agreements that we have in place. Lisa
has talked about this. Tyler just
mentioned it. For certain deals, they're
blending in foreign policy objectives.
See India yesterday. I just wonder
what's your reaction to that and how you
think this is going to play out going
forward.
Well, it's been clear since the campaign
that President Trump uh really likes
tariffs not just as a revenue source,
not just as a direct trade policy tool,
but as a general purpose source of
negotiating leverage for anything he
wants countries to do. And we're seeing
that, you know, very clearly in in the
Brazilian case, uh to some extent across
the board. Um, you know, I I think that
uh he he is serious about using them to
get countries to the table on on
whatever he wants to negotiate over. uh
the resolution, the Brazilian case, I
think is a little bit unclear because
it's not really at uh President Lula's
power to to do some of what uh President
Trump is asking for uh in terms of the
treatment of of Bolsaro within their
political and legal system. Um but they
did pull the punch a little bit on the
breadth of those tariffs yesterday. So
uh that's not as alarming of a situation
uh for them even in the interim. Tobin,
at a certain point there was a question
about whether President Trump would
force some of the trading partners to
choose between the US and between Russia
and China. Do you feel like that really
has been a theme through all of these
talks?
>> So, it's certainly been an issue in the
talks particularly in Southeast Asia
where these big exporters obviously have
deep commercial ties with China. Uh
we've seen this 40% trans shipment rate
announced for Vietnam. Uh, as Tyler
indicated, I think it's fair to expect
that we see something similar in the the
Thailand and Cambodia deals when they're
rolled out. Still no details whatsoever
about what that's uh h how that's
measured, what triggers that uh
threshold. I assume it's going to be
done based on some Chinese content uh
threshold, but they have not put out any
details yet. But you know, I think the
the coherent vision of the tariffs as a
a way to present a unified front against
China and maximize pressure on them. Uh
that's been articulated by Secretary
Bessant looks a little bit different
from how President Trump himself is
directly approaching China where you
know we're in a fairly consiliatory mode
vis China. So, you know, some elements
of the tariffs that we're seeing rolled
out do have that sort of China pressure
strategy reflected in them. But at the
same time, we are uh not really
confronting China that aggressively
directly when we look at stuff like the
H20 restrictions being rolled off.
>> We see some certainty. We see some
frameworks for deals and a lot of people
in markets have cheered that certainty.
It is better than what we had over the
past number of months of speculation.
How much does that get disrupted and
frankly how much market risk is there?
Should uh the courts today overrule some
of these tariffs and the AIPA act that
was used to justify them?
>> Yeah, so today we have oral arguments in
front of the court of appeals for the
federal circuit. Uh they're not going to
take any action today. I think the
action is probably a month or two down
the line, but we will get an indication
of how they're leaning from the
questions that we hear at at oral
arguments. I think in terms of the
tariffs themselves, if they get struck
down, they can be replicated. The
president can use other authorities.
section 338 foremost among them to
recreate the same pattern of tariffs
that he's been rolling out uh just with
a little bit less nibbleness. You know,
those would take effect after 30 days.
Um slightly different legal
requirements, but I think he can
basically get to the same end point. The
question of what happens to the revenue
that's collected between when these
tariffs took effect and roughly end of
year, which is when we think the Supreme
Court's going to weigh in, that's an
interesting question I think has been
under discussed. Uh my expectation is
that that revenue will need to be
rebated to the importers of record who
paid those tariffs because they were
collected unlawfully. And so even if we
end up recreating the same prospective
pattern of tariffs, that could be a
really big wave of kind of accidental
stimulus that we see in the first half
of next year along with the intentional
stimulus from the big beautiful bill. Um
so among other things, if I were sitting
on the FOMC, that is something I'd be
concerned about in terms of cutting
early. So Turbo, there's another obvious
question to ask as well and not just the
monetary policy dimension, just the
tariffs themselves. Given what you just
said, if I don't fully understand the
legal standing of the tariffs being
implemented, why would I roll out the
sectoral tariffs anytime soon given that
that might be a tool available to me to
respond if I had to?
>> Well, so you know, the the sectoral
tariffs of course are under a different
authority. So I think they are still
proceeding with those. was they want to
get that kind of complimentary piece of
the puzzle settled. Those have turned
out to be pretty broad. You know, the
the focus has been on the country by
country reciprocal tariffs, but the
sectoral tariffs are a very large piece
of the puzzle as well. So, even if AIPA
does get struck down, ultimately we'll
have those sectoral tariffs remaining in
place as they try to sort of rebuild the
country by country specific um uh rates.
So, I think that piece of the strategy
makes sense. I do think that they're
going to move forward uh some, you know,
within the next few weeks likely on both
semis and pharma. Uh and we'll see what
the details of those announcements look
like.
>> Tobin, appreciate your time, sir. Lots
to get through. Tobin Marcus of Wolf
Research. This just coming. Here's a
headline for you. EU wine and spirits to
face a 15% US tariff in the interim. The
negotiations continue on wine and
spirits according to the European Union.
>> Yes. So down the road there could be an
exemption from the tariffs on French
wine. All I'm thinking is is there going
to be a rush to the Napa Valley to try
to stock up in the meantime because
they're going to have relatively cheaper
prices at least in the United States
just theoretically for an individual who
might enjoy wine
>> for you for instance.
>> Well maybe I mean yes I'd be I'd be a
representative individual.
>> The French would be very unhappy
>> if they didn't get their exemption. What
this highlights is how much still has
yet to be discussed. And we heard this
from the EU uh EU trade commissioner
saying there still is quite a bit of
discussion around items that could put
be put in the 0% tariff bucket when it
comes to transnational trade. So look,
there's still a lot of questions to be
determined and French wine, Spanish
wine, Italian wine is very much front
and center for a lot of us.
>> Some issues are more important than
others. That's the latest on trade. Up
next, Stefan Stinsky of BMPU Parapar as
big tech earnings drive stocks higher.
Plus, Danny Burer with your morning
movers as Ford warns of a big tariff
hit. That stock is down by close to 2%.
From New York, this is Bloomberg.
[Music]
Closing out July. What happened to July?
Three months of gains. That's what we're
looking at on the S&P 500. Equity
futures add some weight to the rally up
by 1% this morning on the S&P on the
NASDAQ 100 higher by 1.3 with three as
until the opening bow. With your morning
movers is Danny Burgerer. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. And here's why. It was huge
numbers being put up from the
hyperscalers. be it the results
themselves, the amount that they project
that they're going to be spending with
capital expenditures with tens of
billions of dollars every quarter. So
the results, strong ad results from
Meta, strong Azar results from Microsoft
that allow them to have that spend. Just
to put these numbers in context
together, they're set to add $530
million in market cap. That alone would
be the 17th biggest company in the S&P
500, putting it right above Netflix.
Microsoft set to hit $4 trillion. But it
was a split screen of companies that did
well because of AI and those that are
being hurt by tariffs. Ford among them.
A2 billion dollar hit is what they
estimate for the year because of
tariffs. Tom Nion though of RBC pointing
out it's not just that. It's things like
expiring EV tax credits, weakness in
Europe, and some warranty issues they've
had. So those shares down 1 and 3/4 of a
percent. And not all tech was created
equal. Qualcomm also falling 6%. It was
disappointment in the weak guide for
what it looks like to be their phone
market. Of course, one of their business
biggest businesses is supplying chips to
smartphones. They also have an expiring
or potentially expiring relationship
with Apple as they move in-house for
their chips. John
>> Danny, thank you. Appreciate the update.
More from Danny in the next hour and
more on big tech in just a moment. On
our radar this morning, Fed chair Jay
Pal shrugging off pressure from
President Donald Trump, holding rates
steady and saying the full impact of
tariffs on the economy is still unknown.
Pal saying no decision has been made on
a September rate cut.
>> And what you saw is Fed funds future
price out just a touch. the chance of a
rate cut in September. The commentary
was pretty uniform. Essentially, yes,
you got two descents from Fed governors
for the first time going back to 1993,
but Steve Englander of Standard
Chartered for uh Fed Chair Pow Powell.
Wherever there was wiggle room, he
wiggled hawkish. Stuart Kaiser at city
stocks pulled back during the press
conference more on vague answers and a
high bar from positioning. And then
Blake Gwyn, we think Powell had a clear
hawkish lean. So definitely that was the
main takeaway. My favorite take Mike
Ferohi JP Morgan more about auditioning
for the Fed chair appointment than about
the economic conditions. I think he
called the descent two job applications
at yesterday's meeting.
>> And we heard Fed chair Jay Powell say
you can listen to them explain it and
I'm sure they'll have a thing to explain
it. I think that was what he uh sort of
said referencing with their commentary
that he's expecting. slightly unfair to
look at those descents and just say
they're job applications when someone
has come forward and put a forward a
pretty credible argument to reduce
interest rates.
>> You said someone there were two
descents. John,
>> I meant Governor Waller. I'd like to
know more from Governor Bowman in the
coming weeks about how she's thinking
about the situation given her other
views at the end of last year in the
other direction. But Governor Waller has
been pretty clear, I think, pretty clear
about why he thinks we should be
reducing interest rates.
>> And a lot of people would agree with
him. I mean, even Rick Reer, you
mentioned him of Black Rockck earlier.
Even though he's relatively bullish and
sees this as a stockproof economy, he
said right now it does seem like a good
time to cut rates because there is this
weakening and you're seeing it in a host
of different measures. So, a lot of
people agree with that view. It's not
that much of an outlier view to call it
purely political.
>> That's the latest on monetary policy.
More on the Fed a little bit later.
Here's the latest on trade. The
president unveiling fresh trade deals
ahead of tomorrow's deadline, announcing
15% tariffs on imports from South Korea,
25% on India. The president also
announcing sweeping exemptions to his
50% levy on copper, triggering a major
move in yesterday's session.
>> So, we could delve into all of the trade
agreements, but we really should take a
note. Let's just take a moment for
copper. the idea of people who uh you
know piled into the copper trade with
this expectation of 50% tariffs and the
copper prices in the US not necessarily
in London totally wiped out. I mean this
to me was something Julian Emanuel said
liquid markets don't trade like this to
see a 19% plunge in copper prices. Why?
Because essentially he's exempting the
main product from copper that is used.
So kind of not really relevant anymore
for a lot of what gets used in
production. There was some miners
getting very excited as well. It wasn't
just the commodity. Some miners here in
the US getting very excited about the
prospects of them being the only game in
town.
>> Yeah, Freeport Macmarin shares really
followed the sentiment shift in real
time and it was sort of the rise and the
fall of the emotional roller coaster
that has been 2025.
>> That's the latest on Copper. That
emotional roller coaster continues for
Nvidia as well. Apparently, authorities
in China summoning Nvidia over alleged
security risk related to its H20 chips.
the move clouding the outlook for the
business in the country following CEO
Jensen Wangs visit with senior officials
in Beijing just earlier this month.
>> Yeah, it's sort of we're going to have
to wait the two years to get Nvidia
earnings. But in the meantime, we do
have this sense of the liabilities of
being brought so close to President
Trump and being an American company in
China. We keep seeing that again and
again. Can the rockstar of AI remain
immune to that in China at a time when
the chips are necessary? But there are a
lot of questions there about their
national security as well as in the
United States.
>> Stock is up this morning. It's not
trading on that. It's trading on this.
Meta and Microsoft pushing stocks higher
after posting beats on earnings and
boosting AI spend. Investors now turning
their attention to both Apple and Amazon
after the close. Stefan Sloinsky of BMP
Paraba Exan rising his price target to
on Amazon to 264. We believe investors
will increasingly view Amazon as the Gen
AI leader. Stefan joins us now for more.
Stefan, welcome to the program. Sir,
actually wanted to start with the likes
of Microsoft because there was something
you said coming into earning season. You
said we were looking for investors to go
from relieved to excited. Credit to you.
Is this the excitement phase?
>> Morning, Jonathan. Yeah, I think we're
starting to see that on Microsoft.
Obviously, the stock had a really good
run after the relief of the the March
quarter print. Um, today we're starting
to get more excitement. So when
investors see this type of uh revenue
growth acceleration at scale, they're
really wowed. And to be fair, Meta is
showing that today as well. So Microsoft
is a $300 billion run rate company on
the top line. Growth just accelerated
from 15% in in their fiscal Q3 to 17% in
their fiscal Q4. And obviously all the
talk was about Azure accelerating from
35% to 39% growth. And that's about an
$85 billion run rate business. So, uh,
yeah, I think we're going to start
seeing investors getting more excited
about Microsoft.
>> Stephan, can you spend some time with us
just explaining where their acceleration
is coming from, what's behind it, and
whether it's just even more incentive to
keep on spending.
>> I think the um interesting thing here is
it's not about AI or it's not all about
AI. So, uh, when you look at Microsoft's
comments last night, they said the beat
or the outperformance came from their
core cloud business. That's boring
things like Nestle moving their SAP
systems to the cloud. Uh AI was in line
with their expectations. Um same thing
on Meta last night with their strengths.
Um AI is helping at the margin, but it's
really the core business and Gen AI is
not really contributing a lot just yet.
So the core businesses, the core
platforms are are are doing very well
for Microsoft Meta for these
hyperscalers. And the exciting thing is
is Gen AI is really just ramping. So
that's still to come. To your question,
yes, that's what's driving this
investment. When you look at Microsoft,
Amazon, Google, and Meta, capex is set
to go from 150 billion in 2023 to we
think over 420 billion next year in
2026. So, that spend is accelerated and
the AI acceleration theme continues.
>> Wait, hold on a second, Stephan. Can you
repeat that cuz I don't think I wrap my
head around those numbers. $420 billion
in capex next year for one company. Is
that what I just heard you say?
>> That's for those four hype. So that's
Microsoft, Amazon, and Google Meta
together.
>> Okay. So, right now we're looking at
something a conservative estimate by our
own Dan Curtis here at Bloomberg of
something like $330 billion of capex in
2025.
This level of spending and the fact that
they continue to gain share raised a
question, where is this money being felt
in the economy? Is it being felt in the
efficiency by, you know, just the rank
and file S&P 500 companies? Is it coming
in an inflationary boost somewhere down
the line? Do you get a sense of what
this is doing economically?
>> Well, of course, the main beneficiaries,
as you just mentioned previously, are
going to be those uh those providers.
So, one of the shifts that the
hyperscalers are talking about is
shifting to spending on the kit rather
than the shell. There's been a lot of
data center build over the last couple
of years building out those buildings.
That'll continue, but they're actually
shifting the spend more towards uh the
chips themselves, the networking
equipment themselves. Um that has a
benefit in the sense it converts into
revenue much quicker. The downside is it
also converts into depreciation much
quicker. One of the things we've been
doing is writing about increased uh
depreciation, increased opex with all
this capex spend. That's what we're
seeing at Meta. Meta's guidance
basically is for EPS growth to collapse
next year to near 0% as margins come
down 500 basis points. Microsoft and
Amazon are taking steps to alleviate the
opex pressure. We think we should
continue to see 15 to 20% earnings
growth from those companies. So we're
starting to see the moment of truth
where a lot of that spend is going to
come through and hit the P&L. For now
it's the data center providers, the chip
providers of course who are benefiting
from that spend.
>> Are these buyers price insensitive? And
I'm talking about uh how much Nvidia can
raise prices of their chips and just
have these hyperscalers absorb it with
no consequence at least for now because
of the hopes and dreams around AI.
Yeah, I think so. In the sense that when
we look at what a company like Meta is
is spending to hire AI talent, when we
look at the spending on the
infrastructure buildout itself, um you
know, these companies think that the
winners will be those that have uh the
talent, those that have the data, and
those that have the capacity. And so
they're willing to spend whatever it
takes on those three things in order to
reach that magical artificial general
intelligence first. In Microsoft's
instance, they have 380 billion of
committed backlog. So Microsoft is
essentially saying, look, we already
have this commitment. We're we're not
building this infrastructure hoping that
we can use it. We know we're going to
use it. We need to build that
infrastructure because the demand is
already there.
Stefan, just before you go, we've talked
in general terms about the opportunity
for these stocks. What's special about
Amazon as we look for those numbers
after the bell?
>> Yeah, so the pressure is on Amazon right
now. Obviously, Microsoft and Google saw
cloud acceleration. Google and Meta saw
advertising acceleration. Um, so the
pressure is on Amazon to deliver. All
eyes are going to be on that Amazon Web
Services growth. Consensus was around
17%, so was the buy side. We think maybe
that nudges up to around 18% growth
after Microsoft strong quarter. We need
to see that or else Amazon Web Services
is going to be looking like it's losing
more share to Microsoft Azure. Overall,
Amazon should see revenue growth
accelerate as AWS and advertising become
bigger and that should also help their
margins as well because those are the
two higher margin businesses. And then
finally, Oracle and Microsoft have been
dominating the narrative around AI
infrastructure, AI monetization. We
think as we head into the second half of
this year, Amazon joins that story, if
you will, as AI capacity comes online as
their anthropic relationship begins to
ramp and as their tranium 3 chips ramp
as well.
>> Stefan, I appreciate your time, sir.
Thank you. Stefan Sloinsky there of BMP
Parabar Xan. I think these are the
numbers you're after. This came from
Luke Cow. He was quoting Neil Data of
Renmack just yesterday. So far this
year, AI capex, which we define as
information processing equipment plus
software, has added more to GDP growth
than consumer spending.
>> This is the reason why so many of these
other uncertainties haven't been as
relevant. And that's the reason why
people are getting so excited about the
US exceptionalism story. I will just say
a note for Amazon after the bell. I want
to see how they're using AI to remove
some of the advertised uh suggestions
when I search for something and actually
give me what I want. Is that your
personal complaint?
>> I'm just telling you that this is
something I personally would desire.
Yes,
>> there you go. Mr. Bezos and Mr. Jesse
stock is higher in the pre-market by
something like 3%. Let's give you an
update on stories elsewhere this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's
Yahara. Hey, Yahara.
>> Hi, John. The US reached a trade
agreement with South Korea that will
impose a 15% tariff on imports,
including cars. It also sets up a major
investment in American energy and ship
building. Commerce Secretary Howard
Lutnik said the deal includes a $350
billion South Korean fund for US
investments with 90% of the profits he
says going back to the US. Meanwhile,
Ford shares are falling 1 and 3/4% in
the pre-market. The company did report
better than expected second quarter
revenue, but warned earnings will see a
sharp drop this year by as much as 36%.
That's in large part due to a net tariff
impacts of $2 billion, about 500 million
more than the company previously
thought. And President Trump and JP
Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond have started to
meet in person after years of mixed
public remarks between the two. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg, the pair
resumed talks back in June. And just
last week, Trump and Diamond spoke in
private at the White House where they
discussed a range of topics including
the Fed and economy. That should be our
brief, John.
>> Hey, Yahara. Thank you. More from Yihara
in about 30 minutes. Up next, double
descent.
>> We had two dissenters who I think, you
know, you you want that clear thinking
and and and you know, expression of of
your thinking and we certainly had that
today. We certainly got that. We'll talk
about it next with David Se of Namora
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The rally resumes. Equity futures high
by 1% on the S&P 500. Thank you, Meta.
Thank you, Microsoft. The NASDAQ high by
1.3%. Others have found us this morning,
double descent.
on the descents. You know what you what
you want um from everybody and and also
from a dissenter is a clear explanation
for of what your thinking is and what
are the arguments you're making and
that's we had that today. We had two
dissenters who I think you know you you
want that clear thinking and and and you
know expression of of your thinking and
we certainly had that today. Here's the
latest this morning. The Fed holding
rate steady prompting the first double
descent from Fed governors in more than
30 years. David Se of Neora writing the
following. The apparent increased
willingness of Fed governors to descent
does signal that if Pal's replacement as
chair is significantly more doubbish
than the bulk of the FMC, it could bring
an end to what has been decades of de
facto Fed dictatorship by the chair.
David joins us now for more. David, good
morning.
>> Good morning. How are you?
>> I'm very well, thank you, sir. Descents
make headlines. Do they make a
difference?
>> Well, they don't make a difference in
the short run, we don't think. Uh Powell
was pretty clear. He was very gracious
uh to governors Waller and Bowman
talking about what a great meeting it
was. But he did not seem to accommodate
their views at all. But what it does
probably make a difference to is uh
what's going to happen in the postpowell
era which is no more than about 10
months away. Um, if governors are now
more willing to disscent than before, we
may be ending the so-called dictatorship
of the Fed that that has been going on
for for many decades and is a very
different model. Uh, where you really
have to count the votes and try to
figure out at the end of every year
which presidents, regional Fed
presidents are rotating off, who's
rotating on. Um this has been a very
academic exercise for for decades
because at the end of the day what the
chair wants the chair has gotten. That
may not be the case especially if
Powell's replacement um is not in line
with where the bulk of the the committee
is.
>> So markets will want to know investors
too. Does it make the committee more
hawkish, more doubbish, more volatile?
Which one?
>> Well, you know, I think that that we
really do need to see um how the the the
12 members, the entirety of the FOMC is.
So I I think that if the chair is is
more dovish, maybe the the committee
gives a little bit of difference at
first, but uh it would be one thing for
the the the new chair to want to cut a
couple extra times, 25 bips each more
than the rest of the committee, but to
try to cut um a couple of percentage
points more than the committee wants, I
think that's where we'll really see the
the committee the rest of the committee
probably harden a little bit if we get
to that point. Let's split the
difference and talk about 100 basis
points of rate cuts next year, which
seems to be more in the offing for
people if there is a sort of more dovish
Fed that is a Fed chair that is
appointed next year. You've been saying
that there will only be one rate cut
this year. Looks like the market's kind
of coming your way slowly. I'm just
wondering, do you think that that raises
the prospect of a greater number of cuts
next year?
>> Well, our our thought is that uh we're
really not that far away from neutral.
And so our our our thought is that
there'll be a couple two rate cuts next
year and that would be it. Um now that's
of course assuming that the committee
stays generally the way it has been. Um
presumably especially if if uh Powell
stays in his governorhip, President
Trump's only going to have a single uh
seat that he's able to fill. So it would
still be nine non-Trump appointees uh on
the FOMC. Um, I think that that that
that probably is enough to keep it from
being all that much more than that. I I
could I could easily see uh, you know,
some of the names that have been uh that
have been uh floated for Fed Chair, all
of whom are are serious economists, uh,
being able to finagle an extra cut or
two out of it. But I don't think that
that whoever it is is going to have the
the ability to simply roll over the rest
of the committee and get hundreds of
basis points of cuts.
>> Is this a good thing or a bad thing?
Does this actually lead to less
credibility of Fed decisions in the
minds of markets or does it lead to
more?
>> I think that the the dynamic has
actually so far been fairly healthy. Um,
that could change, but right now what
you're really seeing is the president
has been saying what he wants. The Fed
has been acting like an independent
institution and ultimately um it hasn't
changed markets expectations all that
much. Uh, you haven't seen inflation
expectations become unanchored or
anything like that. So, I do think it's
a a little bit of a a scary situation,
so to speak. Um, this could go wrong,
but but as of now, the back and forth
between uh the Fed and the and the
president, I think, has has shown sort
of how strong these institutions both
are and and so far not been such a bad
thing.
>> You've talked about the division between
the institution and the White House.
Let's talk about the division inside the
Federal Reserve on the committee right
now. Seems to be over the labor market
and not so much on inflation. I think we
talked a lot about the inflation story,
but on the labor market, Governor Waller
is saying that we're on the edge.
Chairman Pal spent basically the whole
news conference saying that the labor
market was okay and he anchors that view
around one data point, the unemployment
rate. Do you think we're anchoring the
view or rather is Chairman Pal anchoring
his view on the labor market around a
misleading data point?
>> I I actually think that this is this is
uh the right way to do it. I think that
what we have seen and what we are
continuing to see is that because
immigration has come down so much, the
number of jobs that need to be created
each month, so the the so-called break
even NFP uh is a lot lower uh in order
to keep the unemployment rate steady. So
we would estimate that over the last
year and a half or so that number has
gone down by probably 50,000 uh jobs per
month. And actually some others have
estimated that it's gone down by even
more than that. And so uh what is full
employment? Full employment conceptually
is not how many jobs are being created
each month. It's does everybody or
almost everybody who wants a job have a
job? And and that is really measured
well by the unemployment rate. There are
problems each month. It's not the best
series on a month-to-month basis, but
over a series of months, over a longer
period of time, that is really what you
want to focus on even if non-farm
payrolls growth uh has slowed down. So I
think that John really set up today well
when he said Joo because after hours we
heard from the Fed chairs Sachi Nadella
and Mark Zuckerberg talking about the
transformation they're engaging with in
this economy and how much it is going to
transform potentially the way we work
and the labor market as we know it as
well as inflation. I mean how much power
does the Fed have at a time of
technological advancement that we're
seeing from some of the hyperscalers at
a at a pace that we really haven't seen
in decades if not centuries? Yeah, I
mean, you know, it's really interesting
because when you have an exogenous thing
such as uh the the AI explosion that
we're having uh in terms of investment,
I mean, who knows what it's going to
lead to at some point in the future, but
right now it's leading to a lot of
economic uh activity in the form of
investment. And that what we're seeing
that can really just dwarf all the other
things that are going on. So, um tariffs
provide perhaps a negative hit to the
economy. you know that that's a that
could be a speed bump in the context of
something much bigger going on that's
beyond the control of anybody at the Fed
or in the government or anything like
that. And I think that that is really
what we we may be seeing right now. It
still remains to be seen how much
investment there's going to be. But what
is going on has nothing to do with
policy or tariffs or anything like that.
>> We just have about a minute, but is the
$330 billion that the big hyperscalers
are expected to spend this year
inflationary? Um all else equal, it
certainly is inflationary. But um the
question is if it if it's uh filling a
hole that uh that would have been
slowing economic growth, then perhaps
really what it is is preventing
disinflation or deflation from
occurring. So um it's going to
presumably raise the inflation rate
higher than it otherwise would have
been, but that number may have been
falling, especially once the hit from uh
from tariff induced inflation has
passed. David, appreciate your time.
>> My pleasure.
>> Thanks for breaking it down. Thank you,
sir. David Se there of Namura on the
Federal Reserve decision. Apparently,
descents do matter.
>> Well, it matters in terms of maybe not
necessarily this year, but next year. If
it is a a trial for who's going to be
the next Fed chair, then the market has
to take that seriously. And so far, the
market might be pricing out some rate
cuts this year, but pricing in a couple
more next year. And that might
ultimately be more important because
it's where the Fed rate ends up, not
necessarily how quickly it goes in the
next couple of months.
>> See you next time on September 17th. I
just wonder if two months is enough to
resolve the issues on that committee
right now. I have my doubts.
>> I think that right now it feels like an
ideological difference and it's hard to
know how that's going to get squared. Up
next on the program, we'll catch up with
Mirror Panda of JP Morgan Asset
Management, Jason Thurman of the Harvard
Kennedy School, Daniel Rusker of
Bernstein, and someone who knows
something about dissenting, the former
Kansas City Fed president, Esther
George.
[Music]
The Federal Open Market Committee
decided to leave our policy interest
rate unchanged. We believe that the
current stance of monetary policy leaves
us well positioned to respond in a
timely way to potential economic
developments.
>> They have to wait because they're not
really sure what's going to happen to
the economy.
>> You still have an inflation problem and
I think the Fed is not still
appreciating that enough. We're all
expecting some level of stagflation in
the second half of the year, but we
don't know the magnitude or shape of it.
>> This is going to be like the last, you
know, quiet meeting. I think when we get
to September, it's going to be a much
different ballgame.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Can we just have a quiet summer? Heading
towards a third month of gains on the
S&P 500, closing out July like this.
Equity futures on the S&P 500 charging
higher, pushing higher by 0.9% on the
NASDAQ up by 1.3. Thank you, Meta. Thank
you, Microsoft. Those earnings after the
bell yesterday, absolutely knocking it
out of the park. Meta up 12%, Microsoft
up by close to nine.
>> No is the answer to your question of can
we have a quiet summer? And the answer
is it's the trifecta. You have policy
certainty coming down the pike. You have
this question around economic data
coming in stronger than expected and you
have the economy that is big tech
absolutely powering a massive
technological shift to the tune of two 4
trillion companies now in the United
States if these moves hold and Microsoft
at a time where it seems like they
cannot spend enough when it comes to AI
investment and this market is ready to
reward them for that. Those two names,
Meta, Microsoft, about 500 $5.5 trillion
of market cap. Just those two names, 10%
of the index. It's very difficult to
fight this market when names like that
put up numbers like that.
>> Yeah. And today we have $ 8.7 trillion
of market cap that will be reporting
earnings. It is the busiest day for
earnings of the season at a time where
again it seems like these companies have
incredibly high expectations. Since the
bar has been set very high and they
managed to just hurdle over them and
then some with the promise of more to
come, it raises a question of how much
that move, that secular shift is
overwhelming the noise of absolutely
everything else.
>> Said it a few times in the last hour,
Jay, who just how relevant is the
Federal Reserve in the face of what
we're seeing play out this morning?
>> What we're seeing is the relevance play
out in small caps and that really has
been the direct move. If you do see a
Fed that remains on hold, some of the
smaller companies are going to really
have a harder time because they have
been expecting and we've seen gains on
the heels of the expectations for rate
cuts. Question is, if the economy is
solid, great. If this is a political
disagreement that ends up in a too late
Fed, as President Trump was talking
about, that does lead to some potential
problems. But right now, anyone who is
bearish on this economy has just gotten
blown up. So, you can't really find too
many of them on the street right now.
The week isn't over yet. After the
battle, we'll hear from Apple. We'll
hear from Amazon. Later on this morning
at about 8:30 Eastern time, you'll get
jobless claims tomorrow. Tomorrow
morning, 8:30 Eastern time, the jobs
report just around the corner. For now,
though, futures positive by 0.9%. Coming
up this hour, Mer Panda, the JP Morgan
asset management with stocks are raising
Wednesday's losses. The former White
House economic adviser Jason Ferman as
country's race to strike a trade deal.
and the former Kansas City Fed President
Esther George after the Fed's biggest
descent in more than 30 years. We begin
this hour with stocks rising after
upbeat earnings from both Meta and from
Microsoft. Mera Pand of JP Morgan
writing the following short-term
volatility is likely, but a durable
correction seems less so. Mera joins us
now for more. Mera, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Asked the question in the previous hour,
how can you fight this with numbers like
that? It's very difficult because you
have the profits backing up the equity
market story here and you also have a
broader equity market overall which
helps further support the rally. So yes,
you have the MAG7s supposed to
contribute about 2/3 of overall profit
growth. But then if you look at what's
driving markets, the Mag 7 are driving
about onethird of overall market action.
So that's healthy in our view to see
that markets are still benefiting from a
lot of different catalysts here. you
still have that anchor when it comes to
the mag 7 and technology to help lift
the tides a bit.
>> Do you think it reduces the relevance of
the Federal Reserve?
>> So, I think that there are times in
history where the economic data demands
that the Fed acts. This to me is not one
of those times. There is a credible case
for the Fed to cut. There's a credible
case for the Fed to keep right where
they are. Ultimately, the economic
engine is always going to be corporate
America. the Fed is also going to try to
create some of those bumpers and guard
rails for the overall economy. So I
don't think it renders the Fed
irrelevant, but I certainly do think
that right now, despite the very
impassioned two camps of the Federal
Reserve, there is a credible case to to
do either at this point. So I don't know
that the Fed can actually go wrong in
the near term. Given that uh sort of
backdrop, it's amazing how rate
insensitive this broader market has
become. How much does it even matter
when the Fed cuts to risk asset
valuations and frankly even to economic
activity given the fact that it seems to
be holding up just fine whether the Fed
cuts or not, we're probably still going
to have a pretty durable market. I mean,
think about the last two years where
we've had rates even higher before the
Fed did start to cut and markets still
produce 20 plus% returns and at that
point the MAG7 did contribute about 2/3
of those overall returns. So the fact
that you're still having the mag 7
hanging in there, you're having war
participation from other areas of the
market, capex seems completely
undeterred does mean that whether the
Fed cuts or not, we can still have a
pretty successful market potentially. It
feels like people can't get more bullish
this morning. I really can't find
anybody who is uh negative particularly
after seeing those earnings from
Microsoft and Meta and we see the dollar
reflecting that. If continues to gain,
if it continues to strengthen, it will
be the biggest uh weekly strengthening
going back to 2022 in the dollar. At
what point are we going to see the first
half of this year reverse where all of
those flows out of the US and US assets
start to come back in force given some
of the developments that we've seen?
What we have seen already this year is
despite a lot of the overtures of sell
America and the end of US
exceptionalism, you didn't actually
really see foreign investors selling
treasuries, you didn't really see
foreign investors selling the equity
market. Foreign investors still own
about a quarter of the Treasury market
and about 20% of the overall equity
market. And by the way, neither are US
investors. You've seen retail doubling
down for months. You're starting to see
more of that activity coming from hedge
funds and some of the more institutional
buyers. So you certainly really haven't
actually seen in the markets the sell
America narrative despite the fact that
it's been so pervasive at a headline
level
>> came up almost every single month in
Bank of America's fund manager survey.
The most crowded trade the most
consensus view was to short the US
dollar. Euro dollar pushing towards 120
and here we are back at 114.
>> Welcome to the summer pain trade because
of that positioning. Maybe it gave real
legs to the move that we're seeing
really in stunning magnitude given that
we could be po poised for the biggest
dollar strengthening in a week going
back to 20122 and a lot of it has to do
with big tech and a lot of it has to do
with the fact that the Fed might not
have to cut rates as quickly.
>> Mirror, can I ask you what is the most
compelling reason to look abroad right
now given the fact that Europe doesn't
have a Meta, doesn't have a Microsoft,
doesn't have an Amazon, doesn't have an
Apple.
>> You're looking for diversification of
catalysts. So if I think about Europe
for example, it's more about the fiscal
story. While the Fed is on hold here in
the US potentially or maybe cutting
modestly, you have Europe all the way
down to 2% maybe still about to cut and
they're a much more interest rate
sensitive economy when you look at some
of the lending practices out there as
well. So you have a different form of
catalyst. Let's not try to look for tech
in other places necessarily where it is
not already dominant. But let's look for
some of those other types of
diversifiers and catalysts because if
something does fall down, if something
doesn't work out, you still have
something that is not linked to the AI
tech US story to provide some other
sources of return within your portfolio.
How concerned are you that we've seen
some pretty violent moves? You start to
talk about diversifying catalysts. Well,
you know, it seems like the market's
pretty calm, but then you see the move
like what we saw in copper, 19% plunge
just in hours on the heels of an
announcement from the president. We've
seen some really big, historically big
responses even in stocks after earnings,
even when they haven't been massive
pronounce pronouncements from the
companies. What do you make of that in a
market that's supposed to be very
liquid? Areas that are going to be
volatile are going to stay volatile,
things like commodities, we always tend
to see pretty volatile. So those are
some of the areas that will react to
trade news in a big way. But when we
think about the stock market itself and
what we've seen from different sectors
within the US market and areas of
opportunity is there are multiple
stripes of catalysts. So you have the AI
stripe, you have the other stripe, you
have the policy stripe. I think of an
area like financials or industrials or
utilities. They all have probably two
out of the three. Financials, you have
the other which is the yield curve
steepening. You have policy which is
deregulation and some of that
insensitivity to tariffs given some
insulation. You look at utilities linked
to AI but you also see you know not not
only the power generation piece of that
but again some of that insulation from
tariffs very domestically oriented. You
take industrials it's actually got all
three. You have the automation when it
comes to AI. You have the policy perhaps
some re-industrialization on the margins
and then you have the other things like
HVAC, aerospace, transport all doing
well this year. So when I think about
the market, I think about the froth that
is in certain areas I do think about
where are the genuine catalysts that are
diversified across the board in
different areas of the US market. That's
where I feel a little bit more
conviction.
>> Can we finish on what you don't like?
What don't you like right now? Some of
the areas that are more defensive areas
like real estate, staples, consumer
discretionary is not necessarily
defensive, but when we think about
staples discretionary, the consumer
overall, you are hearing some good
stories out of earning season in terms
of some of that resilience. But what I
do worry about a little bit is the
margin story there when we think about
not only some of that overseas revenue,
but also the tariff impacts to demand
overall. So those are some of the areas
I would still be a little bit more
cautious on. areas like healthc care
still have a huge overhang from the
administration from some of the cuts
from the one big beautiful bill when we
think about things like Medicaid and
where that funding comes from pharma
tariffs could still be on the docket so
those are some of those areas where I
would say they have the reverse of some
of those catalyst maybe they're not
linked to AI they have some negative
policy catalysts and the other maybe
doesn't look pretty compelling
>> mirror this was compelling appreciate
your time thank you ma pandit there of
JP Morgan asset management Stocks higher
by 0.9%. Mirror alluded to Europe and
the financials. Euro stocks 50 banks up
this year by more than 50% so far in 25.
>> Yeah, on the promise of some of that
stimulus that you could potentially see
as well as even uh deregulation. I know
that that sounds crazy. We are talking
about the Euro region. I loved what she
was talking about stripes of catalysts
and I was thinking that if she wanted to
illustrate this, it could be a zebra
with lots of stripes, the multicolored
stripes. That's where I'm at this
morning.
>> You're tired, aren't you? Yes. You
probably need some sleep possibly. Okay,
let's give you an update on stories
elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yhierra. Hey
yra.
>> Hi John. President Trump suggesting he
won't make a trade deal with Canada.
Trump posting on Truth Social. Quote,
"Wow, Canada just announced that it is
backing statehood for Palestine. That
will make it very hard for us to make a
trade deal with them." Canada faces a
35% levy on imported goods if it does
not strike a deal by tomorrow's
deadline. Meanwhile, Chinese authorities
have summoned Nvidia representatives
over alleged security risks related to
its H20 chips. The country's internet
watchdog cited comments by US lawmakers
about the need to install tracking
capabilities into advanced chips sold to
other countries. The move comes after
CEO Jensen Wong visited Beijing earlier
this month. And Norwegian Cruise Line
shares are popping in the pre-market up
6%. It reaffirmed its guidance after
seeing strong demand in recent months.
Its revival comes after Norwegian called
out softening trends back in April,
seeing choppiness in its European
bookings. Rivals Royal Caribbean and
Carnival also saw a spike in demand this
quarter and boosted their fullear
guidance. That's your Bloomberg brief.
John
>> Yhara, thank you. I'll always respect
the numbers. I'll just never understand
the motive. Nor
>> the motivation to get on a boat and be
stuck there for weeks on end.
>> Weeks on end. How long do you think
people go cruising people? Some people
go cruising for weeks.
>> You think you you're going to be one of
those people who retires onto a boat.
>> I'm not going to be any of those people.
>> I think that you should. I think you
could see I think you could see the
fjords, but you could also see, you
know, beaches and different islands. I
think you would really
>> The only way you ever get me on a cruise
is if Uncle Mike writes a massive check
and sends me on a cruise.
>> You would have to pay me.
>> Okay, hold on a second. I never see you
going on a cruise. You know what?
One day I'm going to catch you on a
cruise going around the fjords in Norway
and I'm going to exception.
>> Oh, there we go.
>> Beautiful Viking Viking cruises.
>> Okay, here we go.
>> Okay, that's different. That doesn't
count.
>> Let's call the cruise.
>> That's on a river. All right.
>> All right. Okay. Up next, counting down
to the President's Trade deadline.
>> We made our deal with the European
Union. The Japan deal is done. We're
talking to India now. We'll see what
happens. But you'll know at the end of
this week. A conversation up next with
Jason Ferman, the former economic
adviser to President Obama from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[Music]
For a moment, things were a little too
quiet. The president has this to say on
the Federal Reserve decision in the last
24 hours. Jerome, too late. Powell has
done it again. He's too late and
actually too angry, too stupid, too
political to have the job of Fed share.
He's costing our country trillions of
dollars. I thought it was notable that
yesterday we didn't see a a truth social
from President Trump on Jay Powell. Here
he is. Here's a question uh that I have.
Is this actually a relief to people?
Because yes, he is responding. Put
another way, too late is a total loser
and our country is paying the price. He
doesn't say fire him. And that actually
might be taken as a relief and that's
where the bar is this morning.
>> I want to repeat something Mirror Pandit
said and others have said too. There are
credible arguments to cut interest rates
right now. There are credible arguments
to wait. I think the chairman at the
moment is navigating this situation
really quite well. I think he did a
decent job yesterday of navigating the
descent and has done a pretty decent job
of navigating what is increasingly a
very difficult situation with the White
House.
>> Yeah, the markets seem to really have
endorsed Fed Chair Jay Powell. And
frankly, even though we did get two
descents, this was a meeting that that
really skewed hawkish and it seems like
the bulk of the committee, the rest of
the others do support what Jay Powell is
doing. So it doesn't seem like this is
necessarily at a level that is really
raising the eye of people in markets.
>> Take a beat. We'll get some more data,
two more CPI reports, two more payrolls
reports, and get back together again on
September 17th to make another decision.
Equities at the moment on the S&P 500
doing okay, positive by 0.9% on the
NASDAQ up by 1.3. Big tech having a
major part to play so far this morning.
And the surveillance this morning,
counting down to the president's trade
deadline. We made our deal with the
European Union.
Uh the Japan deal is done. Many of the
other deals are done. Indonesia was a
very big deal. But we'll see what
happens. We're talking to India now.
We'll see what happens. And it doesn't
matter too much whether we have a deal
or whether we charge them a certain
tariff. But you'll know at the end of
this week.
>> It's the latest this morning. President
Donald Trump announcing new tariff deals
and demands before his deadline
tomorrow. the president revealing 15%
tariffs on South Korean imports matching
the rate for Japan. Joining us now from
the nation's capital Tyler Kendall.
Tyler, just briefly describe what the
next 24 hours is going to look like.
>> Yeah. Hey, John. Well, we're still
waiting on a few announcements from some
pretty crucial trading partners. So
perhaps we'll get some sort of movement
there. I'll point out that President
Trump is expected to have a phone call
later on this morning with Mexico's
President Shine Bomb. And it's been sort
of ironic, I think, because Mexico and
Canada, too, which we're also waiting
for some sort of announcement from, they
were a tariff months before these other
trading partners, yet they still haven't
been able to reach an agreement. A
person familiar does tell Bloomberg News
that the negotiations with Mexico have
now reached the level where the
decisions need to be made on the leader
level, perhaps uh showing us uh some
movement in the right direction. But we
still know that there are array of
different issues that this White House
is looking for when it comes to Mexico
in particular. Now, in terms of some
other countries that we could see
movement on, Thailand and also Cambodia,
we're expecting they're likely going to
see a lower 36% rate announced at some
point in the next 24 hours. The US
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik said as
much. And then just lastly, I'd say even
though we're still waiting on
announcements, we're also still waiting
on details from the announcements that
we've already gotten. And we know, for
example, that the Treasury Secretary,
Scott Bessant, is still set to meet with
South Korea's finance minister later
today. So perhaps we'll be able to glean
out a few more of those details when it
comes to that agreement that was
announced. Because while we know, John,
that there's going to be this 15% lower
rate also extended to autos, we still
need to see the bigger picture here when
it comes to those investment commitments
of $350 billion, a hundred billion
investment for US LG imports. how
exactly all of this is going to work
since it was uh considered to be
essential in ultimately clinching that
lower tariff rate.
>> Tyler Kendall with the latest. Tyler,
thank you. Bloomberg's very own down in
Washington DC. To extend the
conversation, Jason Ferman, the former
economic adviser to President Obama
joins us now for more. Jason, welcome
back to the program, sir. The data seems
to be okay. The earnings from corporate
America better than good. We're a few
months into this process and I just
wonder from your point of view, Jason,
whether you believe it's premature to
sound the clear.
Um I I don't think the data is that
terrific. Um in the first half of this
year, the economy grew at a 1.2% annual
rate. That is way below where we should
be. Core inflation was a 3.0% annual
rate. That's way above um where we
should be. So no, it's not a catastrophe
by any stretch of the imagination. Um
but you know, there's more than a hint
of stagflation in the numbers we saw in
the first half of this year looking at
it together. It was something Jason that
Bob Michael was talking about. The key
question for a lot of people is how big
is the stag and how big is the
inflation? What are you looking for to
determine uh the answer to that
question?
>> Look, one of the confusing signals here
is the disconnect between GDP growth,
which has been weak. It was even
negative in the first quarter, although
some of that I think was furious
measurement issue. um and the job
market, which if you look at the
unemployment rate, which Jay Powell
rightly emphasized yesterday, um has
held up um quite well. And you know, you
see consumers cutting their spending
back, but continuing to get jobs,
continuing to get raises, and that on
the stag side of the ledger, um is
making things even more unclear. Well,
on the inflation side of things, right
now there's a question about the trickle
out effects of the tariffs, whether
we've seen the ramifications yet. A lot
of economists have been saying wait
until the third quarter, wait until the
fourth quarter and see exactly how
companies really manage through this.
Who do you think is a good example or is
there an industry that you think is a
good example that might have given us an
early look at how this trickles out and
what consumer receptivity is to
absorbing those price increases?
Look, some of the lowest margin
businesses like toys, um, you see that
passed on very quickly. Um, at the other
end of the spectrum, you have cars where
you have the president telling them not
to raise prices. Um, their prices are
very visible. They've been reluctant to
do it, but it's not like General Motors
is going to continue to sell cars at a
loss indefinitely. Um, they're
eventually going to have to raise those
prices.
>> Jason, do you see this being offset by
what's developing in services inflation
at the moment? How are you reading
what's happening in one side versus the
other?
>> Um, I mean, services is continuing to
come down, but we sort of always thought
that was going to happen. That was our
path to 2%. That was the part we were
counting on. Um, the problem is that the
goods deflation has reversed and now we
have goods inflation again. And so, one
of those I take for granted. It doesn't
seem to me like the news. The other one,
the good side, that's the unpleasant
surprise here. Now, the idea that it's
transitory is not at all crazy. I think
there's even a very good chance it's
true. But if you're the Fed, do you want
to bet everything on a very good chance
when you're definitely not sure?
>> With that in mind, do you think 2 months
of data is enough data to draw any
conclusions before you make a decision?
>> I mean, you always think that two months
from now everything's going to be clear
and then two months from now everything
is still muddy. So, it's going to be
muddy two months from now. They're going
to be getting conflicting data, but
yeah, maybe it'll be a tiny bit clearer
than it is now.
>> I keep going back to the way that John
opened the show, which was Jay who
raises the question implicitly about how
relevant the Fed is at a time of massive
technological explosion, and we're
seeing that in the tech earnings. I
mean, how much does the advancement, the
investment coming from some of the tech
giants in the United States overwhelm
some of this discussion and certainly
overwhelm the negative consequences from
the tariffs that a lot of people had
expected?
>> It depends what you're talking about.
Um, if you're talking about the stock
market, yeah, a lot of what's going on
in the numerator, which is earnings,
rather than the denominator, the
discount rate, is what matters right
now. Um, if you're talking about GDP,
we're not seeing a lot of tech, at least
in the supply side. Frankly, we're
actually seeing it more in the demand
side right now. And so, if anything, it
might be inflationary up front.
Productivity growth is basically right
on the track we thought it would be
prior to the pandemic. So, tech is
helping the stock market quite a lot.
I'm optimistic and hopeful it'll help
GDP, but right now it is uh not having
any real material impact there. Jason,
that's a strong final point. We'll leave
it there. Thank you, sir. Jason Ferman
there of the Harvard Kennedy School.
When I say Jay, who I imagine Jay
himself probably likes it that way. He'd
probably prefer that we weren't talking
about him as much as we are.
>> You mean rather than having the
president next to you saying, "I'd
prefer if you lower rates since last
>> he talked about Zuckerberg and Nadella
after yesterday." That is the ultimate
goal. He wants to remain in the
background because they don't have the
clarity as does none of us as do none of
us. Right? So the point is how does he
not remain the story so that he can just
take a passive view on exactly how
things can progress. The relevance of
Fed policy right now I think is also a
question given some of these other uh
drivers of the economy.
>> You've got the economic story and the
market story. And in the economic story
you've got a good story and a services
story. Two very different stories which
is why Ford versus Microsoft I find
absolutely amazing. Ford is really
relevant for the goods economy, but when
you're seven basis points of the S&P
500, you're not as relevant as
Microsoft, which is about seven
percentage points. It's a major
difference between the two.
>> Yeah, but everyone has a car. Most
people in this country have a car. So,
all of a sudden, it becomes very
relevant from popular opinion and for
the general uh belief in the economy.
>> Futures positive at the moment, up by
0.9% on the S&P. Up next, Daniel Rusker
of Bernstein with Ford becoming the
latest company warning of major tariff
impacts. Plus Danny Burker with your
morning movers. CBS boosting its outlook
that stock higher by close to 8%.
[Music]
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Bremo's impressions this
week on the money. Where are these
coming from?
>> I just, you know, it's bubbling up. I'm
going to try to put them back in because
messages the last few days about
>> I know. I know. It's a mess. Okay, let's
move on.
>> Yeah. Not bad. Okay, futures positive on
the session. We're up on the day, up on
the week, higher on the month as we
close out July. Equity futures up by
0.9% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 1.2.
With your morning movers, is Danny. Hey
Danny.
>> Hey, John. It's hard to look anywhere
else but here this morning. And that's
after the results of Meta and Microsoft
and the huge rally that we are seeing
pre-market 11.7 for Meta. For Microsoft,
it's 8.3. The spending continues. Gone
are the days where we dislike tech
companies being capital inensive
companies. instead commitments of tens
of billions of dollars and Microsoft
joining the rarified air if this gain
holds of being worth more than $4
trillion. We also had some other
earnings this morning. CVS being among
them. It is a raise in guidance for
profitability from CVS. That's sending
shares higher by an eight and a third
outperformance of their pharma unit,
their health insurance unit. Some of the
other industry has seen some issues with
higher cost than expected, but it seemed
that CVS dealt with that in 2024 has
moved beyond that for 2025. Also heard
from Comcast this morning. For them, it
was a lower loss than expected for their
broadband customers. Of course, that's
the bulk of their business, so that sent
shares higher. Also seeing good results
when it comes to their media business.
They are splitting some things off in
their cable business, but specifically
Peacock that they're holding on to
getting closer to reaching
profitability. Uh, I guess thanks to
shows like Yellowstone and Love Island.
John,
>> Danny, thank you. I don't watch Love
Island. I do watch Love Island. Danny,
thank you.
>> Would you like to share some impressions
of it?
>> The UK version. I've got no impressions.
Okay.
>> I wouldn't like to do that to to my
fellow Brits.
>> That would be unfair.
>> Oh, yeah. I'm sure you'd ever do that at
home.
>> On a radar this morning, Meta and
Microsoft surging in early trading. Both
tech giants pledging to spend lavishly
on AI following blowout quarters. Tech
results continue after the closing bow
with Apple and Amazon.
>> Yeah, it just shows that people were
saying the bar is pretty high. Can they
cross it? And then they leapt across the
uh uh the actual uh protocol that people
were looking for them to show. Key
question is there are two different
stories. Meta has an advertising
business. They can raise prices on their
advertising because of how well they can
target some of those ads. The promise of
that is fueling some of their hopes and
dreams for something even greater to
diversify their business. Microsoft it
just is a cash cow. It is just shocking
to see a 39% growth in their Azure
business. And so that's the reason why
people are cheering some $330 billion of
expected spend for the hyperscalers just
this year alone. What's interesting for
me are the stocks that are moving on
this and the stocks that aren't. So, off
the back of this, Amazon's doing well.
Nice read through. Apple's not moving.
Apple is on an island. Nvidia is doing
well this morning. Nvidia, if you think
about what the bullcase for Nvidia rests
on, it's the patience of the investors
in their biggest customers and they have
a very very concentrated customer base
at Nvidia. And basically what these
companies learned overnight, what we've
learned as investors in these companies
is they've got a green light to keep on
spending. Keep spending on what? The
likes of Nvidia.
>> Yeah. It's a tale of two techs, right?
And you've got the chip sector and the
AI sector tied to the cloud computing
and some of the other generative uh
intelligence that a number of different
companies are really uh pegging their
hopes on. Then you've got the Qualcomms
which really speaks to the Apple story
which came in disappointing because
people are not buying that many
handsets. the the phone recycle, the
super cycle just hasn't happened. And I
think people kind of are realizing they
might be in isolation from one another.
>> Two mag seven stocks do not look like
the others and that's been the story so
far this year. The other story for me as
well is what happens with the labor
market, Lisa. And I think increasingly
we need to be thinking about that. You
can have this dynamic in the equity
market where the big players are doing
really well, pushing AI, doing
fantastically, and you can have adverse
effects developing in the labor market
at the same time. that can go in either
direction for a while. At some point,
some real tension starts to bring.
>> Yeah. And this, I think, is what people
are looking at. The idea that you could
end up having some sort of positivity in
the equity market at the expense of the
labor market. We're seeing some signs of
that this morning with uh what we're
getting in terms of the job cuts
announcements from Challenger Gray and
Christmas. Basically, uh a huge spike in
layoffs. We can get into this later, but
really a lot of firms citing artificial
intelligence as a reason for that. And
that I think is one thing we have to
keep watching.
>> Could be a big story. Tomorrow morning,
8:30 Eastern time, payrolls just around
the corner. Here's the latest on trade.
President Donald Trump announcing new
levies, including a 15% tariff rate for
South Korea and 25% for India. Sources
telling us here at Bloomberg. The
president is planning to speak with the
Mexican president Claudia Shinbam today
ahead of his August 1st tariff deadline.
>> Yeah, really interesting to me. India,
and we've talked about this, but I think
it's important to keep coming back to
this. It was a a real surprise and not
in a good way for India to get 25%
rather than 19%. With the extra hair
that they need to really do something
about the relationships uh with Russia
and China with Mexico, it might be even
more fraught because of the
interdependency of these two nations. So
I I'm very curious to see who has the
preferred treatment of 15% which is
shocking that it's not 10%. Uh and who
gets something a lot more punitive.
>> In some ways this tariff deadline
doesn't apply to Mexico and Canada.
You've got to renegotiate USMCA. That's
not happening overnight. That's not
happening in the next 24 hours.
>> Yeah. Which is a reason why maybe people
are putting that off. But I wonder what
the ramifications will be for some of
the key industries that depend on these
two countries is just faith that there
will be some sort of agreement reach.
>> Just finally, one further story. This
coming from the Wall Street Journal in
the last 24 hours. The president and the
JP Morgan CEO Jamie Diamond catching up
face to face. sources also telling us
here at Bloomberg the pair resumed
direct talks back in June discussing the
economy and Fed rates in a private
meeting at the White House just last
week.
>> Yeah, look, it pays to be close to the
president and there has been sort of a
tepid relationship between these two men
with some dueling kind of tense tweets
and truth socials and comments and all
of that. Uh, at the end of the day
though, it's clear that President Trump
has respect for Jaime Diamond and Jaime
Diamond, who has traditionally said he
is always open to have a part in policym
of any sort and has often had a close
relationship with different government
officials, uh, sees the benefits of
having a closer connection in that
front.
>> Breaking news, I have nothing snarky to
say about this. Okay, that's at all. I
just think it's a good thing. It's a
good thing that the CEO of the biggest
bank in this country is speaking to the
president of the United States about
major issues.
>> I couldn't agree more. somebody who has
a real-time experience in what's
actually happening in the economy and
have that mouthpiece in front of the
president just like Jensen Wong having a
real view I think is is unabashedly a
positive thing.
>> They're the kind of individuals that you
want to have influence would want to
have influence over this administration
for sure. Let's turn to the autos. Ford
is the latest automaker warning us
profit will take a hit from tariffs.
Daniel Rusker of Bernstein has an
underperform rating on Ford shares
writing the following second half market
strength and tariff offsets remain
critical to hitting fullear targets.
Daniel joins us now for more. Daniel,
good morning. Hey,
>> we know the rules of the road now to
some degree.
>> Who's in a good spot at the moment?
>> Nobody. Uh I think it's very clear that
tariff headwinds have started. They're
not going away. They're going to get
worse. Um and it's also clear from the
earning cycle we have that automakers
are not going to be able to offset this.
So there will be the pressure on
automakers to raise prices as we go into
the second half.
>> So you don't think this is going to be
absorbed on margin? Margins aren't big
enough. Is the bulk of this going to be
passed on?
>> Uh I think again half. Right. If we
think about it and what the companies
have said, they're looking at kind of
tweaking production footprint a little
bit, but you can't really move all those
assets quickly. They're thinking about
cost reductions, which I would say they
can do anytime anyway. And then they're
thinking about raising prices. Um Ford
had an interesting take that they also
want to focus on mix and push higher mix
into the second half and I think both
better pricing and better mix depend
very much on the health of the consumer.
>> How much is this a problem of the auto
manufacturers's own making and how much
is this an issue of tariffs that
disrupted a really positive cycle for
some of these auto manufacturers? I
think it's a combination of both, Lisa,
where I mean overall I think the economy
as we got into this year was kind of in
a midcycle state and wondering where to
go and now we're all waiting kind of for
the shoe to drop when these prices
filter through and hit the consumer. At
the same time, the automakers, remember,
were coming off of this sugar high
through COVID where there was a lot of
supply constraint and they were still
adjusting to having lower prices and now
they had the prices go down over the
past couple of years and now we've got
this extra cost pressure just coming
into their business.
>> Yeah. Well, we see uh this question
around where some of them are going to
actually produce their vehicles as well.
John was talking about Mexico and the
questions around Mexico and Canada. That
has been the latest supply chain dour
that a lot of these auto auto
manufacturers have relied upon. How
independent can they be to rely on
domestic factories to engage with robots
to potentially uh fortify some of their
production lines in a way that makes
them more immune to some of these
changes.
>> I had a really interesting conversation
with Jim Farley from Ford yesterday and
we talked about kind of the long term.
Where does all this lead? And what he
said is he believes that we'll go not
just into regional product categories.
So cars for Asia, cars for Europe, cars
for the US, but also regional production
um kind of ecosystems and that import
export will decrease over time and each
region with its own emission standards
and production ecosystems will kind of
develop on its own. And for the US, it's
going to be critical how they will
phrase USMCA. And from what we've heard
over the earning cycle, I think there's
a lot of engagement with the
administration how to ensure US
manufacturing, but also enable the
components from Canada and Mexico that
are relevant to make this industry work.
>> Daniel, I just want to extend and build
on the conversation you had with Farley
and think about what that could mean for
some manufacturers here in the United
States. Do they just give up on China?
Do they just exit the region? Where does
it leave Europe? Where does it leave the
product mix? Do they give up on EVs in
certain places? How do you think this
plays out? I think strategically OEMs
will need to decide which region do I
want to play in. And we've talked about
this before on GM where I think GM will
exit China ultimately. Um Ford is in a
position that they have a stronghold in
Europe. They have a stronghold in the
US. And what Farley also said yesterday,
the way I think he sees it is they will
develop their platforms and cars for the
US market. And that's that means bigger
cars, less EVs. and internationally he
said they will rely more and more on
working with partners. So they'll go to
Volkswagen and they'll work with
Volkswagen to use their technology for
the European market.
>> Do we end up spending more on cars as a
result of all of this?
>> Yes, definitely. Um but I think there's
a difference in the medium or kind of
the next three four quarters in the long
term. The next three four quarters will
be really tough because there really
isn't any other way to offset the tariff
cost than pricing. very long-term the
administration has just initiated a lot
of changes on emissions and that has the
potential to take billions of cost off
the table for the US manufacturer. So
that's in the let's say 12 24-month time
frame that's a really good trade-off
where maybe a US manufacturer needs to
accept to pay more but gets some relief
on emissions. Just on your point about
USMCA and just to sort of pay attention
of what to look out for later today when
we hear from Claudia Shinbam and Donald
Trump and their phone call. How much
have the components coming into the US
from Mexico and Canada come from China
ultimately? How much is this sort of the
back door and they're really a
fundamental problem that's going to make
it difficult to continue with that type
of supply chain? the overall content um
of Chinese origin in US cars is below
5%. It's not large. But what does happen
is you do get some chips, some wires,
some parts that come from China into
Mexico, get built into components, and
then those components get shipped to the
US as long as you can make those chips
cheaper somewhere else. I would question
why not. And I would also question
whether the administration really wants
parts manufacturing in the US. I think
that's challenging with the high labor
cost. or whether it wants to focus on
automotive manufacturing and my view
would be that the administration will
look very closely how to treat parts and
cars coming from Mexico differently. Can
we just finish on one company that we
haven't mentioned? Stalantis. Let me go
through some of the brands. Alfa Romeo,
Dodge, Fiat, Jeep, Lancia, Maserati.
Then you've got all these European names
as well that a US audience might not be
familiar with. When are they going to do
something about this? We've been asking
the seauite of Stalantis about this now
for years. When are they going to fix
it?
>> The question is, is this something you
need to fix? What they are doing is they
are harmonizing the technology platform
all these brands work on and you build
the same car and you paint it red, green
and blue and put a different badge on
it. It'll take them another four to five
years to get to that point but that's
the strategy. I cannot see the new CEO
who's been with the company for decades
now really change that strategy. Um, and
so I think they're going to continue
with this multibrand environment, but
they're going to streamline the
operations that underpin those.
>> Do you think it's a good strategy?
>> I think it's a strategy available to
them, right? We're not in a world where
you can just throw away decades of
capital spending and build the OEM you
like. So if I think about it, what do
they need to do? This is what they need
to do. They need to do it faster and
better and they need to come to terms
with their new strategy in the US.
>> Daniel Ruska of Bernstein. Daniel, thank
you, sir. Appreciate it. Diplomatic
there on Stalantis as you might expect.
>> I love it. You just, you know, paint all
the cars different and one is a maroon
Dodge and one is a silver Maserati.
>> Not quite the same, is it?
>> That might be a problem.
>> Just saying.
>> Let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara. Hey, Yah.
>> Hi, John. President Donald Trump
announced the massive exemption on his
50% tariff on copper imports, unveiling
refined metals that are the main stay of
international trading will be spared
from the levy. The move triggered a
record plunge for US copper prices. As
you can see, meanwhile, at least two
dozen people were taken to hospital
after a Delta Airlines flight
encountered severe turbulence that
forced it to make an emergency landing
in Minneapolis. And according to the
airline, the plane was less than an hour
into its 9-hour flight from Salt Salt
Lake City to Amsterdam when the pilots
encountered very challenging conditions.
And former Vice President's Kla Harris
said she will not run for governor of
California next year. According to a
statement, she said she loves the state
and its promise, but after deep
reflection, she's decided she will not
run for governor in this election.
Harris's decision of course leaves the
door open for a third White House bid.
That's your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
More from Yahihara in about 30 minutes
time. Up next, double descent.
>> We had two denters who I think you know,
you you want that clear thinking and and
and you know, expression of of your
thinking and we certainly had that
today.
>> Up next on the program, we'll catch up
with someone who knows about dissenting,
the former Kansas City Fed President
Esther George. Live from New York City,
you're watching Bloomberg TV.
[Music]
The gains continue up by 0.9% on the
S&P. On the NASDAQ, higher by 1.2 on the
Russell. No big tech on the Russell. The
small cap's down by 0.6. And here's the
why. This move in Meta. Here's two W's.
This move in Microsoft, Microsoft up by
8%, Meta up by 12. And it comes on the
heels of a lot of spending uh promised
for the remainder of this year and an
acceleration next year. And the idea
that it's truly paying off whether it's
an advertising prices where they can
charge more for their clients or whether
it's cloud computing where people are
lining out the door saying please give
us more, please give us more. And they
got to build it and they are already
there. Not let alone will come. Huge
turnaround in this equity market over
the last 24 hours. Equities down on the
Fed meeting, higher off the back of
these earnings after the bell. More
earnings to come out and surveillance
this morning. Double descent
>> on the descents. You know what you what
you want um from everybody and and also
from a dissenter is a clear explanation
for of what you're thinking is and what
are the arguments you're making. And
that's we had that today. We had two
dissenters who I think you know you you
want that clear thinking and and and you
know expression of of your thinking and
we certainly had that today. So here's
the latest this morning. Fed chair J Pal
doubling down on the decision to hold
rates steady after the Fed's biggest
descent in over 30 years. Joining us now
to discuss is the former Kansas City Fed
President Esther George. Esther, welcome
back to the program. I remember your
descent in 2019. I remember your descent
I think it was in 2022. You've got some
experience. Can you describe for us what
it's like entering the room, the
committee has a conversation and you
say, you know what, I disagree. I think
we should be going in a different
direction.
>> Well, it's a it is part and parcel of
decision-m in a large committee in my
view and you approach those uh
conversations, those decisions in a way
that I think is respectful of what
you're hearing around the table that
you've taken into account. I agree with
the chairman. You want to you want to
acknowledge that you are listening uh
and understand what the arguments are
but at the end of the day decisionmaking
is difficult and I would argue it is
particularly difficult in times when the
read of the data is not so clear across
the table and I always felt it was um as
much an obligation to the public to
express those views to be respectful
again of what you've heard but at the
end of the today to really voice uh how
you see the economy and the appropriate
stance of policy.
>> We saw a pretty big divide represented
by the views of uh of Fed Governor
member uh Chris Waller as well as Fed
Chair Jay Powell. Both have a very
different view of the labor market and
John's been really good about
accentuating the point that we only have
two months of data. Do we have enough
time to really bridge that gap between
the two men to really understand whether
this labor market truly is stable and
solid or whether there are cracks?
>> Well, I heard earlier a comment on your
program that talked about each time you
finish up one meeting and think you have
plenty of time to see the data for the
next. That is never conclusive. you will
always face uncertainty around what the
data is telling you and whether the
trends you're relying on are about to
shift or whether they will continue and
so that of course is going to be the
focus in bringing these two views to
some kind of consensus. I'd be surprised
if two months resolves that but
obviously both will be looking very
carefully to uh try to reconcile how the
economy is unfolding by that time. Is
your sense that there's quite a bit of
disagreement on the ending point?
Because certainly on Wall Street there's
a great deal of uncertainty about
whether the neutral rate is something
closer to 4% or whether it's closer to
3%. Do you get the sense that there's
that type of disagreement just among Fed
members?
Well, at some level, Lisa, it is
absolutely uh the issue at hand because
when you are trying to specify your
policy, when you're trying to describe
it, particularly after a time when you
brought down rates by 100 basis points,
trying to calibrate around what is an
equilibrium, what should we be expecting
that the endgame is? And so you see that
in a long run sense in the dot plots.
But of course for any given stage in the
economic cycle, you'd be very hardressed
to know exactly what you're looking for.
So that I think at the end of the day is
really the question. Is this mildly
restrictive policy? Is it restrictive?
Is it not restrictive at all relative to
the outcomes we're getting? Is is at the
heart of what the committee is debating.
There seems to be disagreements on both
sides of the mandate, Esther, not just
on the inflation story, but also on the
labor market. We have payrolls tomorrow.
We've heard from Governor Waller. He was
pretty explicit. He came on this program
and said the same thing. He thinks the
labor market is on the edge. That was
like day and night compared to what we
heard from Chairman Pal yesterday when
he talked about the labor market and the
committee continues to call it solid.
Can we get your opinion how you view the
labor market at the moment and whether
you'd characterize it as solid?
Well, I think this is a labor market
that's shifting and obviously in a macro
sense this is a committee that is making
macro policy has to rely on a macro
number which the chairman said is going
to be the unemployment rate. So in that
sense they have explained clearly in the
in a broad sense what they're looking
at. As things move around though,
underneath the covers of that
unemployment rate, I think you have to
be mindful that the Fed's reaction to
that cannot be a direct response. In
other words, if you're going to lower
rates thinking you will arrest the the
changes that are going on under the
covers, not likely to happen. And so in
a time when your backdrop is coming off
of high inflation, trying to get back to
that 2% target, it creates this wait and
see. It creates a real sense of having
to have conviction around the next move
in your policy rate to know what you are
responding to.
>> Esther, thanks for sharing some of your
experience with us this morning. We
appreciate it. Esther George, the former
Kansas City Fed president who, as we've
said, knows something about dissenting
in both directions. By the way, in 2019
and in 2022,
>> yeah, robust discussion at times of
economic crossroads where there is just
a great deal of uncertainty. You said
something earlier and I've been thinking
about it. Isn't it a good thing for us
to be saying, Jay, who isn't this the
objective of uh Fed Chair Jay Powell and
I would argue if you take it even step
further, how nice it is to have a market
that is not driven entirely by the Fed.
I remember those years of financial
repression where every single uh market
participant said, "Don't fight the Fed."
That's no longer on anyone's lexicon.
We're all looking at the earnings. We're
looking at specific stories. We're
looking at technology. Isn't that the
way it's supposed to be?
>> I think we all wanted to leave behind
the era of superstar central bankers.
The Banankis, the Dragis, someone I have
a great amount of respect for. The
Carnis, another man I respect, but
ultimately we don't want to be talking
about central bank leaders again and
again and again as if they are to borrow
Muhammad's phrase, the only game in
town. And I think we are in a situation
at the moment where they quite simply
for this market and maybe for the
economy too are no longer the only game
in town.
>> We're shifting from financial
engineering to something that feels a
little bit more real and frankly more
physical in terms of the real economy.
>> Up next on the program we'll catch up
with Gagi Chadri of Black Rockck Pyick
of Lightshed Partners, Jonathan Pingle
of UBS and Mark Layman of Citizens JMP
Securities.
[Music]
The investment story in AI is is real
and it's going to be significant.
>> Once again, AI capex plans are actually
exceeding expectations.
>> The market is pricing in some idea that
you you are going to get that broadening
of the AI benefits. AI is a watershed
event on the timeline of of technology
and we believe that this flows through
all 11 sectors. AI has the potential to
be the biggest productivity enhancer for
the global economy since electricity.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz and
Ann Marie Hordern
>> live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. The third
hour of Bloomberg surveillance starts
right now. Your opening bell is 90
minutes away. Your scores look like
this. Secondary futures positive up
nicely on the S&P by 0.8 on the NASDAQ
up by 1.2. Thank you Meta. Thank you
Microsoft. These two names right here.
Meta up by 12%. Microsoft up by nine.
Think about four names that make up 20%
of the S&P 500, 11 trillion of market
cap. Two names down, two names to go.
After the bell today, after the closing
bell, you'll hear from Apple and Amazon.
Big tech report. So far so good. So far
so good. Today might be a little bit
different given where expectations are
coming in and the sort of tale of two
techs that we've been talking about all
morning. Yes, the hyperscaler is doing
really well and Amazon probably can fit
in that bucket given the fact that AWS
their uh their cloud computing business
really does drive their revenues.
Apple's going to be the interesting one.
They deal in stuff and their stuff isn't
purchased as much. They've got the China
overhang. They've got the manufacturing
questions and they have the AI adoption
that hasn't come to fruition. in the
same kind of way. That is going to be a
real wild card and otherwise a tech
bonanza
>> and they've got a whole bunch of
problems. That's for sure. That stock is
down by double digits so far this year.
But Microsoft, Meta, the numbers are
absolutely amazing. When you're spending
this much cash, you need to start
demonstrating to investors that you're
starting to see growth off the back of
it. That's exactly what they did and
some. The bar was already high. They
hopped over it. And that's the reason
why the likes of Meta is demonstrating
that actually when it comes to things
like advertising, guess what? They can
charge more if those advertisings
advertisements are 10 times more
effective and can target people in a way
to get them to actually spend their
dollars. It points to the concept of
what a moonshot some of this
technological development could be for
the economy, for corporate
profitability, for efficiency. And
whether this is going to be inflationary
or deflationary, the fact is how do you
price in something that is a moonshot
and it's on this kind of scale. And I
think that's the reason why people have
been grappling with the importance of
things like policy shifts. Uh whether
it's the Fed or whether it's the
president.
>> Lots of earnings coming up this
afternoon. Some data as well later this
morning 8:30 Eastern time. Jobless
claims. Then on to tomorrow, payrolls.
The payrolls report just around the
corner heading into the weekend. Coming
up this hour, we'll catch up with Gagi
Chowry at Black Rockck following strong
tech earnings. W Pisik of Lightshed
Partners previewing results from Apple
and Jonathan Pingle of UBS reacting to
this morning's data. We begin this hour
with stocks rising on better thanex
expected earnings from big tech. Gaga
Chandry of Black Rockck writing AI and
tech continues to lead here pushing back
on the broadening out narrative yet
again as underpinned by strong beats
from Meta, Microsoft and Google. Gagi
joins us now for more. Gagi, good
morning.
>> Hi, good morning.
>> Just phenomenal beats from these
companies. How difficult is it to leave
the US behind and just pile into this
Europe trade, pile into this everything
else trade? You know, one of the things
that we've been uh talking to clients
about is the need for diversification,
but at the same time not giving up on
the US tech AI theme. And I think to
this to the extent that investors have
not had any international exposure,
massively underweight for those
investors, having some exposure to
quality international names does make
sense. But so important, as was made
evident by yesterday's earnings,
what you need in your portfolio is parts
of the equity market that are continuing
to have revenue growth, continuing to
throw out amazing amounts of free cash
flow. And Jonathan, I think you made
that point earlier that we're finally
getting a a ROI on all of the capex that
has gone in over the last year and we're
seeing the world's largest companies
growing revenue at in you know the high
double digits which is amazing.
>> In some ways the least interesting thing
about this week is tariffs and the trade
deadline. Now if you'd asked me back on
April back in July whether that would be
the case July 9th going into that
deadline I would have said what are you
talking about? terrace is like the
story. Do you think that's going to
reassert itself in the months to come?
>> I think we're all and I know I follow
your show, you're focusing in it in it
as well. Obviously some of the headlines
yesterday around copper around India
tariffs those idiosyncratic stories are
going to drive certain markets and
eventually in time when we realize what
the landing zone of tariffs will be
whether that's closer to a 15% or a 20%
eventually we will see that feed through
and we already kind of seeing that in
goods inflation certain components of
goods inflation. So it will appear it
won't disappear it will appear in data
and it will appear in margins or it will
appear in certain uh foreign companies
reducing their prices. Uh but as of
right now I think the bigger theme is
the two things. number one the ROI on
capex coming through and large cap tech
really large cap tech and AI really
being the story that's going to propel
US exceptionalism forward and I think
the second one which is also less
exciting this morning which is that the
Fed while I think they were quite
hawkish they're still telling us in
their own way that if things wobble
especially on the unemployment rate
front they are here to start cutting
rates and I think that's something else
that the uh market will eventually care
about as well.
>> When you put these stories together,
there's sort of this uh big question
underpinning the market. When are we
going to get the trickling out of some
of the benefits that the hyperscalers
are experiencing to the rest of the
market? When are you going to see a
broadening out where their leadership
isn't just a ballast amid a storm, but
really something that is driving gains
in efficiency and profitability across
across corporate America? How far away
from that are we? So I think depending
on what people mean when they mean
broadening out, I would argue you're
seeing some and then at the same time
you're obviously continuing to see the
largest companies throw out the largest
revenue growth. So when I say there is
some amount of broadening out, I would
say when you look at something like
financials, when you look at different
sectors or subsectors within the equity
market this year, you are seeing more of
those sectors being in positive
territory. That could be called one that
could be one way of thinking about
broadening but at the same time
obviously you have the largest
hyperscalers being the largest revenue
growers and I think that that probably
pushes back against the broadening out
narrative. I think the theme is clear.
It is one of moving away from small cap
unprofitable companies to large cap
quality companies and that's what we've
been talking about and many you know you
guys have been uh having a lot of people
on your show that have talked about that
theme of large cap perhaps it doesn't
feel as comfortable to talk about it if
we've also talked about it last year but
it's still working and it will continue
to work. I think the theme going forward
for the next six months is finding
pockets of diversification in your
portfolio in addition to this AI and
tech trade. International plays a role
there. Fixed income plays a role there.
Assets like inflation link bonds, gold
and certainly market neutral strategies
that aren't giving you too much beta but
at the same time giving you alpha make
sense.
>> International plays a role and John was
alluding to this earlier. There was this
belief that international was going to
outperform the US earlier this year and
it did and a lot of it was pegged to the
dollar and what we saw the weakening.
There's been a huge and violent about
face. Do you think that there is staying
power where the first half was the rest
of the world and the second half is back
to US exceptionalism?
I think that uh a lot of that violent
move that you mentioned was very much
around the dollar underperformance and
obviously with July with the dollar
coming back rallying back has led to a
little bit of that reversal. I think the
path forward a big part of that story
will be what happens with the dollar.
Frankly, what what we're seeing in flows
and what we're seeing when we pull our
investors and our clients is a
recognition of the need to diversify
away from uh large cap because that's
all they have. Not because it's not
going to generate returns but because
there is a need for getting that value
component into portfolios and getting
that from international to the extent
not just US investors but global
investors continue to move away from US
into going back to their home countries.
So we look at European investors and
APAC investors and many of those
investors are just being a little bit
more diversified away from the US. To
the extent that happens, I think that
the international story can certainly
have some legs, but not at the expense
of US large cap quality and growth.
>> Let's just sit on the US. When you said
diversify, you said diversify the
equity. So, if I'm in the US right now
and I diversify my equity exposure to
the international story, given where we
are right now with the dollar, is that
something I need to currency hedge?
>> You know, that's an interesting
question. Like a lot of right now the
view for our firm is still that the
dollar can continue to depreciate.
Usually what we've seen is that the
dollar depreciations happen in these
long cycles. It's not just for one month
or a week. It happens over many months
18 to 24 months and we're just in the
beginning of that. In that case
obviously you want some of those foreign
exposures. You want that exposure to
some of the uh you know EM as well as DM
currencies. Fixed income though is
another story, right? So, usually what
we've seen our clients do is in fixed
income allocations, not necessarily
taking the FX risk, actually hedging it
back into US dollar for that enhanced
yield. And that's something that, you
know, some of our portfolio managers,
especially in fixed income with products
like bank, are doing taking advantage of
the hedged cost for European and other
area credit markets. Gagi, appreciate
it. It's good to see you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Gagi Chowry there of
Black Rockck on your equity market
worldwide and a little bit of cross
asset as well. Can you remember a day
after the Fed where we talked this much
about the Federal Reserve and by this
much I mean this little.
>> All I can say is it's a victory. So
congratulations. You can do a victory
lap Jay Powell for us talking about Joo
and talking about anything else but the
Fed. Maybe this is the way it should be.
>> He can thank Satia and Mark. Let's be
very
>> the Fed chair Satia and Mark. I do think
that they are right now are driving this
economy.
>> Thank you very much to them. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Yahara Arnand. Hey Yhara.
>> Hi John. The US reached a trade
agreement with South Korea that will
impose a 15% tariff on imports including
cars. It also sets up a major investment
in American energy and ship building.
Commerce Secretary Howard Lutnik said
the deal includes a $350 billion South
Korean fund for US investments with 90%
of the profits according to him flowing
back to the US. Meanwhile, President
Trump suggesting he won't make a trade
deal with China with sorry with Canada.
Trump posting on Truth Social, quote,
"Canada just announced that it is
backing statehood for Palestine that
will make it very hard for you for the
US to make a trade deal with them.
Canada faces a 35% levy on imported
goods if it does not strike a deal by
tomorrow's deadline. Meanwhile, moving
on to China, Chinese authorities have
summoned Nvidia representatives over
alleged security risks related to its
H20 chips. The country's internet
watchdog cited comments by US lawmakers
about the need to install tracking
capabilities into advanced chips sold to
other countries. The move comes after
CEO Jensen Wong visited Beijing just
earlier this month. That's the Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thank you very much.
Shout out to High Yield Harry. OnX
writing this, it's got a picture of
Robert Dairo. You're bearish. Every
large tech company is spending hundred
billion dollars on AI and you're
bearish.
>> That's the problem. And that's the
reason why nobody is. High yield Harry.
I hope you're loading up this morning.
>> I'm sure they're What's Tom? Triple
leverage long cash. I'm sure sure this
individual's not triple leverage long
cash.
>> Equity futures right now in the S&P up
by 0.9% big tech performing. Up next,
we'll get you some morning calls. Plus,
we'll catch up with Boulder Pisc of
Lightshed Partners looking ahead to what
could be a difficult one for Apple from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
You have the Mag 7 supposed to
contribute about 2/3 of overall profit
growth. But then if you look at what's
driving markets, the Mag 7 are driving
about 1/3 of overall market action. So
that's healthy in our view to see that
markets are still benefiting from a lot
of different catalysts here, but you
still have that anchor when it comes to
the mag 7 and technology to help lift
the tides a bit. That was Mirror Panda
at JP Morgan weighing in on the equity
market. That rally continues off the
back of tech earnings, positive by 0.9%
on the S&P, up by 1.3 on the NASDAQ.
That's the price action. Here are your
morning calls. First up, Dan Ies of
Wedbush raising his price target on Meta
to 920, expecting 2025 revenue growth
well ahead of its initial estimate. Your
second call from JP Morgan raising its
price target on Meta to 875, saying the
company quote did not miss a beat in its
core ad business. That stock is higher
by 11.6%.
And finally, Key Bank upgrading
Microsoft to overweight, noting fears of
its April downgrade haven't played out.
That stock rallying 8.8% 8% so far this
morning. Let's stick with tech. Better
than expected results from both Meta and
Microsoft setting the stage for more
Mac7 earnings. Apple, Amazon reporting
after the closing bell. Ed Ledllo joins
us now for more. Ed, welcome to the
program, buddy. It's good to see you. I
was on the way home yesterday following
the Fed decision. Saw these headlines
start to drop on the Bloomberg app and
just smiled to myself and just thought,
"Wow, stunning numbers from those two
players."
>> Yeah, they really are. I mean in in
aggregate across both of them it's a
very simple equation where all of the
capital expenditure is justified by the
topline growth and they gave sort of
more granular detail that it directly
relates to AI. You know the Microsoft
print was very interesting because for
the first time they told us how much
revenue they actually book from Azure
cloud in fiscal 25 which was the fiscal
year that just ended $75 billion. Now
that puts them at a pretty distant
second place in the cloud market to
Amazon who had um in the same period
revenue for AWS of $112 billion. But it
shows like this is going in the right
direction and you know they Microsoft I
would say you know in my relatively
brief career gave us more information
about how people are using the
technology the different kinds of
customers and how they pay for it um
than we've seen for some time and then
meta just an astonishing set of numbers.
I don't know even really where to go
with them other than that that that they
they beat across across the board and
then told us something that we haven't
seen for a very long time. They told us
what they're going to do next year in
2026 which in tech, you know, there's no
crystal ball, but that was uh something
that many investors did not have on the
bingo card.
>> Ed, thank you, sir. Ed Lllo, looking
forward to the program later on this
morning, 11:00 a.m. Eastern time for
Bloom Technology with Ed Ladello and
Caroline Hyde. Then this afternoon,
they're going to be busy again. Apple
and Amazon just around the corner. Walt
Pisik of Lives Shed Partners has a
neutral rating on Apple. He came out in
front in the last few months or so and
said the tech giant should also consider
a new CEO. Walt joins us now for more.
Well, welcome back to the program. Let's
talk about what you're expecting from
Apple later on this afternoon.
>> Well, first Jonathan, I just want to
comment on your last segment. The two
things about those highmoving stocks is
that they're investing in AI and that's
really the issue that we have with Apple
in terms of the quarter. Um, you know,
look, there's a pull forward, right?
Trump had had announced tariffs. I think
people went out and bought iPhones ahead
of time. We've already seen this
commentary out of the major distribution
channel for Apple, which is the wireless
operators, Verizon, AT&T, T-Mobile, and
others. So, you are going to see a pull
forward of iPhone revenue this quarter.
So then the question as it always is for
Apple is you know what is the guidance
for next quarter but again that's that
focuses on I think you know the near
term where what investors are really
wanting to know to know about is what is
the AI strategy for this company for the
long term because clearly the companies
that are succeeding in the markets today
and and seeing investor dollars flow
into them are those that have a clear AI
strategy. Well, this just points to the
idea that we might see uh their expense
costs go down because they've lost a
couple of pretty high-profile uh AI
technicians and strategists to the likes
of Meta, which is offering 100 billion
dollar payouts. I just wonder how
important it's going to be for investors
to see spending by Apple to see that
they are working on getting back some of
that promise from this latest
technology.
>> I mean, there's two lines of spending.
You have capital investment where
they're investing in the stuff that
supports an LLM. It's probably too late
for Apple to do that now. But there's
another line of spending and that's R&D
and and which is over $30 billion a year
that the company invests. In the old
days when they would have analysts on
that would ask tough questions. You
would have people ask and say like,
"Hey, where are you spending the 30
billion?" There'd be some response in
terms of the mix of R&D investment in
new products versus old products. and
there be some indication to give
investors some hope that there would be
new products or services incoming then
we know what happened right things like
project titan that would have gotten
them into autonomy were killed and we
saw other pro you know products that
came to market like the vision pro that
really didn't find a market opportunity
so I think hopefully we have some
analysts on the call tonight during that
Q&A session that will ask about where
are you investing that 30 billion in R&D
what are some of the new products we can
invest and what is the AI strategy for
the company going forward.
>> Well, you've mentioned this a couple
times, so we have to go there. You think
that the NLS community hasn't done a
good enough job holding the feet to the
fire of Apple at a time when it seems
like maybe some of their strategies were
overly complacent.
>> I think it's a problem with earnings
calls in general these days. We we do at
le
times analysts get on call and say,
"Great quarter, guys." I saw I heard it
last night on another call again for a
company that a mill had a $1 million in
revenue and an analyst was was
congratulating them on on a great
quarter. And they do that because they
get on the calls, right? And then when
they get on the calls, they don't ask
the tough questions that management need
to be asked that investors want to hear
to figure out what that long-term
strategy is. It's very frustrating.
>> Well, I see this with journalists, too.
How do we fix it?
>> I mean, investors themselves have to put
pressure on there. I I'm certainly never
one for incremental regulation. Um, but
I think the investors, the people that
actually own the stock need to start
pressuring the companies or, you know,
look to us or others to provide maybe
Bloomberg should start doing their own
uh, you know, quarterly review like we
do evaluating that which analysts are
getting on the call, which have buy
ratings versus holds or sells for asking
questions on these calls.
>> Well, Apple's an odd one. It's probably
the most wellressearched company on the
planet. there's only three cells on it
and to your point it's a company in a
difficult spot that should face some
difficult questions later on this
afternoon and well maybe won't the issue
that I have with some of the bulls is
they often come on the program and talk
about the same thing over and over again
they'll talk about growth that's coming
further down the line they'll talk about
an upgrade cycle that doesn't seem to be
happening well when do they capitulate
on that at what point do you think they
have to
>> I mean to to me that's just laughable
right I mean you're exactly right
Jonathan I mean it's the 5% growth that
it doesn't happen next quarter in the
guidance. So, they just said, "Oh, it's
going to come the quarter after that or
the quarter after that." But I think
again, look at look at Apple's
performance relative to the Mag 7. You
know, it's it still has a multiple
that's a premium, right? It's still a
good brand in the market. There's still
an opportunity, I think, for them to get
out of this if they get more focused on
product and developing, you know, some
type of of AI strategy. I've suggested
that may require a change in in the
management, a change in the CEO
specifically. There's others that that
think that they can be they can do it
with the existing CEO and just give them
another year. But what the problem with
that is a year from now, what is the
market going to look like? You know,
what products are going to be in the
market that are already disrupting
Apple? The pace of innovation because of
AI is faster than anything we've ever
seen. Everyone agrees, right, more or
less, that AI is going to be the
something that's have a bigger impact on
our economy than even the internet did.
And yet, you know, we're still not
getting the questions asked of them in
terms of, you know, what's going on with
AI? Why do I when I still use Siri
today, why does it still work the same
it did, you know, 3 years ago, it
seemingly to me, when I can pick up chat
GPT, press their audio button, and it
works great. Well, before we let you go,
I'd love to uh hear your take on China
and India and the manufacturing pathway
for Apple. How much visibility do you
think they're going to give? Will people
uh be making iPhones in New Jersey? I
mean there was some excitement about
some shift of manufacturing to India but
there's there's been a great book I
forget the name of the author but um
that came out recently talking about how
Apple has moved manufacturing um to
China has enabled that country uh to be
a manufacturing powerhouse and the
difficulty that exists in trying to move
that you know to other countries whether
it's India the United States or
elsewhere so obviously that remains
there's always these like existential or
you existing risks whether it's chi
manufacturing in China the $20 billion
plus that Google pays them for search
which is obviously under scrutiny of the
government because it was it was used as
a way to keep Apple out of search there
are these big ticket items in terms of
events that can certainly you know still
happen that's not a way to invest on
these big ticket items that you know
that may or may not happen you we should
be focused on at least where the AI
strategy is and and look you're right
like you I don't know what they can
update us on in China, how quickly they
could get out of China. It's doubtful
they they would have anything that would
make the market um you know the concerns
go away that all of a sudden you're
going to move this amount of volume out
of China back to a different market.
>> Well, appreciate your time PyCh. Thank
you, sir. You're thinking of Patrick
McGee as well. Apple in China. Fantastic
book from New York City. More data up
next.
[Music]
The up and about 60 minutes away.
Economic data seconds away. Your scores
going into it look like this. Equity
futures on the S&P positive by 9 cents
of 1%. On the NASDAQ 100, higher by
1.3%. In the bond market, your scores
2-year, 10-year, 30-year. Yields higher
yesterday, lower this morning. We're
down by three basis points on a 10ear to
on a 30 year at the very long end of the
curve 486 call it 487 with your economic
data. Let's cross over to Mike McKe.
Good morning Mike.
>> Good morning John. Well numbers we got a
lot of numbers for you here. Uh the econ
the employment cost index rises 9/10en
of a percent same as uh the first
quarter. Uh that's something the Fed
keeps a close eye on. We'll see what the
wage component of that is. Initial
jobless claims 218,000. That is only
1,000 more than last week. So, no sign
that the employment side of the Fed's
mandate is a problem. But let's go over
to PCE where prices rise on a headline
basis 3/10. That's up from 1/10enth, but
it matches the estimate for the month of
June. On a year-over-year basis, the
headline up 2.6%.
So, that is a 3/10en rise from what we
saw in May. The core is up 3/10. Uh I
want to look at the uh three digits for
that one as well. Uh 2.8% is now the
core price index for uh the uh PCE core.
Uh 2.7% last time. Uh so that's uh a
tenth higher than it was in May and a
tenth higher than was anticipated. And
when you look at all put all these
numbers together, guys, what I would say
is um we should probably throw up a
graph or something of the PCE because
the line is going up. And if that
continues, it's hard to imagine the Fed
wanting to cut rates at all.
>> Mike McKe, thank you, sir. Stay close.
I'll just run through the price action
cross asset briefly. Not seeing a major
move off the back of this. We can start
with equities on the S&P 500. Still
positive off the back of tech earnings.
The NASDAQ high up by 1.3. In the bond
market, yields were lower going into
this. They stayed lower. We're down by
three basis points on the long end of
the curve on 10 at 434. And in foreign
exchange, major move higher in the US
dollar. I say major because we are
facing potentially the best week for the
US dollar going back to 2022 this
morning. A bit of dollar weakness
against the euro. Euro dollar 11437. But
I just like to pair this data with the
line that came from chairman pow
yesterday. That inflation is further
from our goal than employment. And in
many ways when you look at the inflation
read this morning kind of speaks to what
the chairman was speaking about just
yesterday.
>> Yeah. You're not seeing initial jobless
claims pick up in any kind of material
way and you do see a slight upward
revision or upward surprise to that core
PCE which is what they look at and you
are seeing the upward trend. He did say
that this is part year-over-year comps
etc. I do think it's notable that the
employment cost index surprise slightly
to the upside 0.9% versus the expected
0.8%. Again nothing shocking. This isn't
going to be 1970s runaway inflation type
numbers. However, it feeds into the idea
that employment isn't necessarily the
disinflationary force that a lot of
people thought it could be.
>> Mike, stay close. We'll come back to you
in just a moment. I want to bring in
Jonathan Pingle of UBS. Jonathan, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Thank you.
>> What's your first take on this data this
morning?
>> Well, most of it looks largely in line
with expectations. Not really that far.
I don't think this is I don't think this
is anything that's really going to
change. Uh the narrative, you know,
initial claims have rolled over a little
bit. they they look low. Uh the
employment cost index, you know, that's
still going to be consistent with the
general cooling that we've seen uh in
the labor market. Um you know, I think
about sort of the inflation data coming
in this morning. I mean, this is exactly
what we sort of predicted after
yesterday's GDP report where we got the
quarterly numbers. So overall, this
looks kind of in line. I I think the one
thing, you know, going to Lisa's point
and also going to share Powell's point
being data dependent yesterday is
there's a certain amount of
directionlessness in this, right? The
GDP report shows some slowing. You know,
you can sort of probably pick and choose
to tell a lot of different stories right
now. Um I think what Sher Powell really
wants to do is see the next two months
of data and then they decide what
they're going to do in December,
September. But um I don't think this
this morning it's it's all so close to
expectations. I'm not sure this is
really going to change the narrative a
whole lot.
>> We've been talking about this stasis,
this uncomfortable stasis, particularly
in the labor market for quite a while.
We're not really going anywhere. And
there was this feeling that it was going
to break and had the potential to break
to the downside. And that was the point
that Chris Waller raised. We're
certainly not seeing that today. How big
has the possibility of a break to the
upside gotten, especially after seeing
some of the corporate earnings that we
have?
>> Yeah, I mean that that's a risk, right?
So clearly first half growth slowed and
the June employment report in its uh
details was was pretty weak. I mean uh
excluding returning strikers, private
employment only expanded 68,000 which
would be which would be a weak report in
almost any US expansion. The breath was
poor. The work week fell. In fact, work
week's been declining. So the number
people are actually working are seeing
less and less hours that they they need
to work. So I think that's the backdrop.
I think uh you know I think Governor
Waller and Governor Bowman made really
legitimate points about the potential
risk. This sort of goes to the direction
list and I think also the importance of
tomorrow's report. I think we're all
looking for signs of which way, as you
say, Lisa, is it going to break? Is this
going to break? Like, is this temporary,
transitory, or or or or is this a
slowing that's going to continue to
slow? And I think that's really what's
going to drive the September rate
decision because there's a point they're
just not going to want the labor market
to slow any further. And I think a
68,000 gain in June is sort of that kind
of litmus test. But they get two more
reports to see if is that the new run
rate or is this uh going to rebound?
>> Why does the chairman keep calling it
solid? Nothing you said sounded solid. A
low churn dynamic in a labor market can
hardly be called solid, can it?
>> Well, to cher. Yeah. No, no. I, you
know, Cher Pal's comments are fine.
Like, look, the unemployment rate is is
still relatively low, but Cher Powell
said more than once to a number of
questions he thought the risk to the
labor market to the downside. And I
think that's the concern, right? Does
the unemployment rate just sort of
stabilize here or is there, you know,
some risk of deterioration?
>> Do you think they have to take the leap
of faith in two months time? Do you
think they have to make that decision on
September 17th or can they just stay in
this wait and see mode for the
foreseeable future? We've spoken to a
lot of people that seen no rate cuts in
2025. Is this just something that could
continue through the year ahead?
>> Look, if non-farm payroll employment is
going to run 150 200,000, there's not a
whole lot of reason to cut rates, right?
So, so I think we can all be clear on
that, right? No, no, no. I think I think
you know, you know, Chair Powell
yesterday sort of, you know, he sort of
raised two issues. One is, you know,
sort of the level of inflation, the
level of unemployment, but he also
talked a lot about the risks as well,
right? So I think in September there is
going to be some sort of risk assessment
you know 25 basis point rate cut just to
you know sort of keep in the markets
mind that the direction of travel is
lower which is something that he said
yesterday um you know maybe some sort of
uh riskmanagement approach they want but
they are going to need to see two months
of data I think to uh to make that
assessment
>> you know it's been a couple of months
feels like a couple of years where we've
been in a crystal ball that's been
completely clouded with blindfolds over
our eyes trying to understand where we
are in this labor market. Adding to the
confusion, about an hour ago, we got
this data coming from Challenger Gray
and Christmas about job announcements
coming from companies. Job announcements
do not always mean job cuts down the
line, but they seem like they're getting
pretty high that this is the second
highest July for a uh July increase in
announcements, trailing only 2022 uh
2020 in terms of uh how high they are. A
lot of companies citing artificial
intelligence as one reason why they are
planning to cut jobs. Do we have an
understanding of what the technological
overlay that we've been talking about
all morning will do to the labor market?
>> We have no idea. I mean like
I mean first of all you know this this
is not I mean so the challenger you know
it's interesting the fact that you know
they they noted in the headlines but
this these we have been hearing the
anecdotes from the consulting companies
and others that are you know scaling
back their hiring because they can do
more with AI. So clearly this is in the
margin starting to seep into uh firms
productivity growth reducing their
demand uh for labor but we we we we
don't know what the speed with which
this will uh take be taken on board and
transpire nor the overall extented
magnitude what range of tasks get
replaced. We're just still at such uh
early stages. But I will say you know
we've done some empirical work on layoff
announcements and claims and they do
tend to lead initial claims with about a
three-month lag. So the idea that you
know if this is sort of a new level of
layoff announcement and shows up in
things like you know warn notices that
inform UI um you know these do tend to
translate into claims eventually.
>> So is there an inverse relationship to
the gains that we're seeing in
technology and what we could see in the
US labor market say in 3 months time is
that something that economists are
trying to wrap their head around? I
think we're all trying to wrap our head
around it. But yeah, no, it's totally
possible, right? So, you know, if we
think about what happens in, you know,
in in these productivity games when when
we say true productivity games, they do
tend to be labor replacing, right? And I
know that that sounds really dangerous,
but if you thought about like the 1990s
experience, there was a lot of
technology taken on board that was labor
replacing, but we had such strong growth
from that productivity growth that labor
was reallocated to other expanding
sectors. And it was really a very
positive uh feedback loop for the for
the US economy.
>> Mike McKe wants to jump back into the
conversation. Mike, I know you've had a
second look at the data. What do you
see?
>> A couple of interesting things, John.
First, when we look at the spending
numbers for uh Americans, the uh number
the the uh goods purchases were up half
a percent after two months basically of
decline. And that was something that J.
Paul emphasized yesterday that goods
spending is starting to pick up. Uh
services spending is the same as the
last two months is up 3/10en of a
percent. So good spending rising faster
than services at the moment. Uh in terms
of the ECI and in terms of the income
numbers, uh wages and salaries up just a
tenth of a percent in June according to
the personal income figures. But
according to the employment cost index
in the second quarter wages and salaries
were up 1% a full 1%. So uh make of that
what you will jal and company uh when
you uh look at disposable personal
income it was up 3t10en of a percent not
a whole lot. The savings rate up four
and a half% right now. Uh and then I
mentioned I wanted to look at the
three-digit numbers for the PCE cores.
And what we're seeing is that uh the PCE
headline was 0.281. So it rounds up to
three and the core 2 uh 0256 put it that
way. That is up from the prior month,
but it wasn't as strong as some people
thought. There was a feeling that we
could go as high as a 4/10en change.
When you look on a year-over-year basis
though, uh the Fed the headline PCE,
which is uh uh the Fed's number that
they're following, and the core PCE,
core PCE on a year-over-year basis is
2.793%
when you take it out to three digits.
So, it's uh less than 11 basis points,
basically 10 basis points away from 3%.
And 3% would probably be an impossible
cell for the Fed in terms of getting a
rate cut going. So, uh, this is
something that the Fed is going to be
watching very closely over the next
couple months.
>> It's a good point, Mike. Appreciate the
update. Thank you. Michael McKe there
breaking down the data. Jonathan Pingler
UBS is still with us. So, Jonathan,
let's take a few more beats on the labor
market if we can. Payrolls tomorrow.
Guess for 8:30 Eastern time. The Pingles
are very good at this. What are you
expecting tomorrow morning?
>> We're expecting a 95,000 headline gain.
So, step down in the headline gain, but
you think about the details really
details that are going to be no softer
really than June. Private employment
rising around 90,000 work week stable
unemployment rate ticking up to 4.2%.
>> Does the unemployment rate take on
additional emphasis now additional
importance after chairman pal yesterday?
Well, I think it do. I mean, there's
always been this tension inside the Fed
over the unemployment rate. You know,
it's a stock, so it's relatively slow
moving and non-farm employment is sort
of the flow, right? I mean, it's the
faucet into the bathtub. We used to have
this bathtub model at the Fed, right?
So, so they are going to have this
challenge of trying to understand, you
know, because normally you'd say if
non-farm peril employment did X, that
will tell you the direction that the
unemployment rate is headed over time.
But right now, there's such confusion
over what the trend in labor supply is
with the fall in immigration. We've also
seen um we've also seen a big drop in
the participation rate for other reasons
lately which has cooled labor supply
growth. So I think that that that it
does put a little bit more emphasis on
the unemployment rate and trying to
understand what these underlying trends
in the labor market are.
>> Jonathan, appreciate your time to see
it. Thank you. Jonathan Pingle there of
UBS looking ahead to payrolls tomorrow.
104,000 the median estimate in our
survey. The range as we've said
repeatedly over the last 24 hours is
incredibly wide.
>> Yeah. Going from 0 to 170. I would love
to be a fly on the wall with the Pingles
ahead of payrolls Friday. Uh given the
robust argument and the Jonathan Pingle
one and Jonathan Pingle 2 discussing
>> just remember that Pingle Jr. outdid
Pingle senior in the last 12 months.
>> I hear that's a point of contention. I
hear that this is a problem when it
>> get you an update on how 2025 is going
later on this year. Let's get you an
update on stories elsewhere with your
Bloomberg brief. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. Recapping the latest data, core
PCE picked up in June, rising 3/10en of
a percent month overmonth and 2.8%
year-over-year, showing progress
stalling on the way to the Fed's 2%
target. Consumer spending also rose
slightly after a decline in May. Better
news in the labor market, where jobless
claims came in below expectations at
218,000
for the week. Meanwhile, a Door Dash
driver may have saved the life an of an
employee at the Blackstone building in
New York City, where a gunman earlier
this week killed four people before
turning the gun on himself. According to
the Wall Street Journal, the employee
was heading down to the lobby when the
driver texted her about the gunman. The
woman immediately took shelter with
several other colleagues. Wow.
Meanwhile, Roblox shares are surging 18%
in the pre-market after raising its
fullear revenue guidance. The video game
platform's daily active users jumped to
nearly 112 million and users also spent
much more time on the platform. Much of
the activity is due to the popular game
grow a garden which in July set a world
record with nearly 22 million concurrent
users. Apparently growing a garden
outside is overrated. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. I'm still Wow. Make
sure you tip your delivery driver later
on. That is just a phenomenal story.
Yeah. And it shows how uh people are
people at the end of the day and are
going to look out for each other and
hopefully that will be the takeaway
going forward if we can have one
positive lining.
>> Phenomenal. Up next on the program,
let's set you up for the day ahead.
We'll catch up with Mark Leman of
Citizens JMP Securities looking ahead to
another big afternoon full of tech
earnings.
[Music]
I I don't think the data is that
terrific. No, it's not a catastrophe by
any stretch of the imagination. Um but
you know, there's more than a hint of
stagflation in the numbers we saw in the
first half of this year. Looking at it
together, one of the confusing signals
here is the disconnect between GDP
growth um and the job market. We see
consumers cutting their spending back
but continuing to get jobs, continuing
to get raises.
>> We got economic data just moments ago,
20 minutes ago. Data is okay. No big
changes there whatsoever. No big changes
in this market either. Driven higher by
big tech. Equity futures positive by
0.9% on the S&P 500, on the NASDAQ 100.
Higher also by 1.35%. With your morning
movers is Danny. Hey Danny.
>> Hey John. Let me show you what big tech
is doing this morning cuz this is the
difference as to whether your portfolio
is outperforming or not this morning.
Meta up 11.3%.
Microsoft up 9% this morning. Blowout
numbers, both the results themselves and
their key businesses and the tens of
billions every single quarter that these
companies have committed to capital
expenditures. Taken together, they're
going to add about $530 million in
market cap to this equity market this
morning. That's about the size of a
Netflix. Meanwhile, we also heard from
eBay after the bell yesterday. Really
strong results. The CEO there pointing
to the resilience of the American
consumer that keeps spending and has
outsized purchasing power compared to
their European business, for example.
Also pointing out that they're less
exposed to tariffs considering eBay is
secondhand goods. So, those shares up
12%. Also, when it comes to consumer
demand, another good sign, this one
coming from the cruise operators, this
time Norwegian. They initially flagged
in April. Some unevenness, some
bumpiness, pullback in demand for
consumers. Well, they say it is back.
People are back booking cruises,
reflecting some of what we heard from
some of the other operators this earning
season. Those shares up about 13 and
a3%. John
>> Danny, thank you. Thanks for this
morning. Appreciate it. Plenty going on
in the last 24 hours. Lots still to come
through the next week. Here's the
trading diary. Still to come today, 400
p.m. Eastern time. President Trump signs
executive orders after the closing bell.
Results from Amazon and Apple. Onto
tomorrow, July payrolls and President
Trump's self-imposed tariff deadline. A
sneak peek of next week. Monday, durable
goods. Tuesday, the trade balance, PMI
data, plus AMD results. That sounds like
a good week to take a break.
>> Take a week's vacation.
>> Someone sit back.
>> I believe you're taking Monday off, too.
>> Yeah, I am.
>> And Marie's going to be in the drive-in
seat taking care of things.
>> Yeah, that's true. But I'll be here
back. You won't be
>> have a long weekend. Okay,
>> there you go, Ramo. Enjoy yourself. And
then I believe the following weekend
also having a long weekend.
>> Well, then I'm taking off. But we don't
need to have We'll talk about that. We
can put my calendar up on the screen.
All eyes on tech. As investors await
more earnings still to come. Mark Leman
of Citizens JMP Securities writing,
"Strong results will go a long way in
sustaining the markets rally. The street
will be watching AI spending closely."
Mark joins us now for more. Mark, good
morning. Just want your reflections,
please. And welcome back to the program.
It's been way too long. Your reflections
on some stunning numbers from Meta and
Microsoft yesterday.
>> You know, stunning is the right word. Uh
I think everybody was leerary about how
much they're going to spend. uh and we
got some temperance on that and some uh
guide rails on that and and more
importantly we've seen the results uh
and the expenditures are working and and
and we've had the stick to the winner
theme at citizens. We've talked about it
many many times. I actually think we're
in the beginning innings of this whole
theme and and and this is just the
beginning and and I hate to be
optimistic, but we're seeing some of
those come through and it's it's
stunning how how big those are
>> and their ramifications in the real
world aside from just some of the uh
cyberverse. Uh San Francisco, you're
based there I believe or you at least
have a strong presence there and you're
seeing the ramifications of this given
the AI presence in that city. Can you
talk a little bit about how significant
it's been over the past six to 12
months?
>> Yeah, we have a new mayor. Daniel Lurri
u has done a wonderful job um on a
couple things. One is there's the public
private partnership um that I think is
being embraced in San Francisco. Um that
is really important. Secondly, uh AI 40%
of the expenditures in AI the venture
dollars are being spent in San Francisco
and um those are all back to work
dollars. They want people in the office
and that kind of uh energy that you get
when they're there. So a combination of
that market um resurrecting both um in
the real estate and in the work
environment but as well as in the um
kind of companies that are really
changing the way we do business and
changing way and and like I said I think
it really is just the beginning and
fortunately as citizens we got a big
effort in the private bank and in in in
wealth and other things in California
and we're benefiting from that as well.
How much do you see startups and
acquisitions and things of that nature
on the heels of some of the
high-profiles uh hyperscalers with
promise of future advancement? I mean,
do you see that pipeline really
building?
>> We do. I I I mean, we've seen some of
the big firms, you saw Meta make a very
large acquisition earlier in the quarter
or earlier in the second quarter. Uh it
was a $15 billion acquisition by half of
a company. And that sounds like a lot
and it really is, but for a company like
Meta, it's really not. Um, we're seeing
a race for talent and and that race for
talent is is really uh second to none
that I've ever really seen. Um, but the
ramifications for business across every
single business is just that real and I
think again we're in the very early
innings of that and like you said very
fortunately the public private
partnership that we have in San
Francisco with Mayor Lur is actually
working.
>> Mark, how's this going to work for
startups? Let's say you're a highly
talented individual. You take a role at
a startup and they offer you, as
traditionally is the case, equity in the
business and all of a sudden some of the
senior members of the team get poached
and all of a sudden that equity is worth
nothing. How's this all going to change
in the next couple of years given how
aggressive Meta's been over the past few
months?
>> It it's the right question. I mean, what
Meta is doing is they're buying talent,
but they're buying the companies. So,
it's a it's a little bit nuanced, but
they're really buying the companies.
What I've been saying for some time is
meta has all the data and they need a
lot more talent. The startups have all
the talent and they need the data. And
there's a melding between the two that's
very very complicated. And you're seeing
this unbelievable unprecedented
um ascent of evaluations here that we've
really quite never seen before. But I do
think Jonathan that there are
opportunities. Yes, the big LLMs and all
the things that you're seeing, but
there's other opportunities for startups
that frankly is a resurrection of talent
and people are really putting venture
dollars to work.
>> What's your advice to some of the talent
entering the industry right now? What
would you tell them?
>> You know, it's funny. My my uh soon to
be nephew uh asked me the very same
question a month ago and it was between
a very well-established company and a
startup and uh he chose the
wellestablished company because he that
was better for him. I think for a lot of
entrepreneurs that dream is alive and
well and we are still the best country
for innovation and best country for
startups and that is getting proven time
and time again. We haven't even
mentioned what's going on in data
centers and all the other things and the
ramifications of that that's happening
here right now real time.
>> Love the optimism. It's good to see you
as always. Mark Leman there of citizens
JMP securities on the future
particularly for San Francisco.
>> You read my mind. I was thinking, you
know, say somebody was going into
college or had children going into
college at some point in the near
future. You know, what would the major
be that they should go into that would
give them a leg up in the war for
talent, not in the careers rendered
obsolete? I mean, that's sort of
>> remember it was 5 years ago it was
coding.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> Years ago coding, now it's electrical
engineering.
>> Is that what it is?
>> Plumbing.
>> Quick word.
>> The only thing I'd say for all those
budding entrepreneurs is AI is going to
create great IQ for all of us. Let's
make sure our EQs are up there as well.
>> Okay. So, pay attention to your manners.
>> There you go.
>> We'll leave it there.
>> Clean your room.
>> Coming up tomorrow, some advice for the
kids, I think. Okay. Is that direct? Do
you want to talk to them directly?
>> It's okay.
>> All right. We'll move on. All right.
>> Coming up tomorrow, Sebastian Page of
Tro Prize, Prior of JP Morgan, the
former senior Trump trade adviser,
Kellyanne Shaw. Plus, we'll catch up
with Nadia Levelvel of UBS. Payroll's
just around the corner from New York
City. That does it for us this morning.
Thank you very much for choosing
Bloomberg TV. This was Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[Music]